[Amit Varma]: Among the many memories I have of childhood, there are memories of food. Some of it is
[Amit Varma]: the food my mother used to cook. In that generation, alas, you won't find many fathers who did.
[Amit Varma]: I loved her short shabatta much, and I also loved her fish ala kheev and the fish pulao
[Amit Varma]: she sometimes packed in my school tiffin box. I can almost taste them as I say these words.
[Amit Varma]: Like any good Bengali boy, I was not a big fan of vegetables, but I did like the aloo
[Amit Varma]: posto she made. I hated pothole and kathal though, and developed a taste for begoon only
[Amit Varma]: later in life. I remember being a child in Chandigarh in the 1980s, and once in a while,
[Amit Varma]: my dad would go to empire stores and pick up some packets of salami. My god what a treat
[Amit Varma]: that was. My college years were in Pune, and I remember the special masala dosa of Vaishali
[Amit Varma]: and the banwara of the Ferguson college canteen, and the million cups of cutting chai at the
[Amit Varma]: katta. Food carries such memories with it, and is part of our emotional cells. That's
[Amit Varma]: why we have a phrase like comfort food. There is food that gives us comfort, and it does
[Amit Varma]: so because it takes us to a special place, an earlier place, maybe even when we were
[Amit Varma]: different people, or lived simpler lives, uncomplicated by our modern madness. What's
[Amit Varma]: your comfort food? What food is there in your happy memories? Close your eyes. Can you smell
[Unknown]: it?
[Unknown]: Welcome to the scene and the unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral
[Amit Varma]: science. Please welcome your host, Amit Verma.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to the scene and the unseen. My guests today are Sameer Seth and Yash Banage, who
[Amit Varma]: created waves in Mumbai a few years ago when they started the cult restaurant, Bombay Canteen.
[Amit Varma]: They also went on to start my favorite restaurant in Mumbai, O Pedro, as well as Bombay Sweet
[Amit Varma]: Shop, which takes a modern look at Indian sweets, and it is so so good. Their partner
[Amit Varma]: and mentor, the great chef Floyd Cardoz, passed away in the early days of COVID. But Sameer
[Amit Varma]: and Yash kept it together and kept it going. Sameer got in touch with me earlier this year
[Amit Varma]: to discuss a project, Enthoo Cutlet, a bi-monthly food magazine that has just launched. The
[Amit Varma]: link is in the show notes. Meeting him, I realized that all his projects originated
[Amit Varma]: from a place of passion. Sure, he turned his restaurants into successful businesses, but
[Amit Varma]: they began out of a love for food and an appreciation for the role that food plays in our lives.
[Amit Varma]: And he was now looking to trace a connection between food and stories, food and identity,
[Amit Varma]: food and memory. That's why Enthoo Cutlet began. I thought Sameer and Yash have had
[Amit Varma]: a fascinating journey. I invited them on the show and here they are. We spoke about how
[Amit Varma]: the culture of dining out has changed in India, how it's different from the West where both
[Amit Varma]: of them have worked, why service should not be confused with servitude, why entrepreneurs
[Amit Varma]: should not obsess about scaling, what the food industry has in common with the creator
[Amit Varma]: economy, and just their personal journeys, which I found so fascinating and instructive.
[Amit Varma]: When Sameer left his corporate job to get into this business, his grandmother told him,
[Amit Varma]: bang chhor ke parathe beshne ja rahe ho. My response to that is, no banker has ever been
[Amit Varma]: on the scene and the unseen. Before we begin this conversation though, let's take a quick
[Amit Varma]: commercial break.
[Amit Varma]: Do you want to read more? I've put in a lot of work in recent years in building a reading
[Amit Varma]: habit. This means that I read more books, but I also read more long form articles and
[Amit Varma]: essays. There's a world of knowledge available through the internet. But the problem we all
[Amit Varma]: face is, how do we navigate this knowledge? How do we know what to read? How do we put
[Amit Varma]: the right incentives in place? Well, I discovered one way. A couple of friends of mine run this
[Amit Varma]: awesome company called CTQ Compounds at ctqcompounds.com, which aims to help people up level themselves
[Amit Varma]: by reading more. A few months ago, I signed up for one of their programs called the Daily
[Amit Varma]: Reader. Every day for six months, they sent me a long form article to read. The subjects
[Amit Varma]: I discovered went from machine learning to mythology to mental models and marmalade.
[Amit Varma]: This helped me build a habit of reading. At the end of every day, I understood the world
[Amit Varma]: a little better than I did before. So if you want to build your reading habit, head on
[Amit Varma]: over to CTQ Compounds and check out their Daily Reader. New batches start every month.
[Amit Varma]: They also have a great program called Future Stack, which helps you stay up to date with
[Amit Varma]: ideas, skills, and mental models that will help you stay relevant in the future. Future
[Amit Varma]: Stack batches start every Saturday. What's more, you get a discount of a whopping 2,500
[Amit Varma]: rupees 2,500 if you use the discount code UNSEEN. So head on over to CTQ Compounds at
[Amit Varma]: ctqcompounds.com and use the code UNSEEN. Uplevel yourself.
[Amit Varma]: Sameer and Yash, welcome to the scene and the unseen. Thank you for having us. Yeah,
[Amit Varma]: you know, I've got to say this is almost like a second take. I'll inform my listeners because
[Amit Varma]: I just started a couple of minutes ago, and we are recording in my home studio. And the
[Amit Varma]: cable wasn't attached to Sameer's mic. So we've kind of had to start again. And my first
[Amit Varma]: question is no longer a surprise, but it's still going to be my first question. Before
[Amit Varma]: we started, Yash, you mentioned that, you know, I should ask you anything, you have
[Amit Varma]: nothing to hide, right? So I'm going to take you up on that. Could each of you tell me
[Amit Varma]: one thing about yourself, which the other doesn't know?
[Guest 2]: Yash, you want to go first this time? As in, I honestly have nothing to hide. I think being
[Guest 2]: a true co founder, I've shared everything with you. So if you have something, then it's
[Guest 1]: going to hurt my heart. Truly set it up for all the drama. You sound like a married couple.
[Guest 1]: I think the one tick of mine, which I was sharing with you before we discovered the
[Guest 1]: lack of a wire, was that I have to do everything in even numbers. So like when I'm having a
[Guest 1]: bite of something, like it has to be two bites or four bites. And obviously, Yash is finding
[Guest 1]: this hilarious right now with jokes brimming through his brain, which he will keep to himself.
[Amit Varma]: So many legal problems if I crack that joke. You do have two great restaurants. But yeah,
[Amit Varma]: exactly. So there you go. And one great sweet company, you'll have to start another one.
[Guest 2]: But is that why you didn't want to do anything on your own and you found me? Exactly. Exactly.
[Amit Varma]: So sweet. Yeah, he completes you. My life has been meaningless. Yeah. So how did this
[Amit Varma]: habit come about? Were you always like this? As long as I can remember. And there's no
[Amit Varma]: OCD element otherwise. No, that's it. This is everything twice. Yes. What is the weirdest
[Guest 1]: thing you've done twice? That I don't know. You're leading into these jokes, I'm sure.
[Guest 1]: But like, I don't think there's anything. It's just the simple everyday things that
[Guest 1]: just need to be done in twos. So even if you taste something and it's shitty, you'll still
[Guest 1]: taste it again? Probably not. It's not that bad. It's not that bad. Okay. So I'm curious
[Amit Varma]: to find out about sort of both of your childhoods and your journeys and whatever. Who should
[Guest 2]: we start with first? Let's go with Yash this time. All right. Yeah. Quick one. I was born
[Guest 2]: in Bombay. When I was a week old, my parents thought we should move to Pune. I'm in just
[Guest 2]: a quick background. My father is a neurosurgeon. My mom's an architect. And I had a brother.
[Guest 2]: I have a brother. Sorry, Yuri. Who's told you not to mess this up. Who's messed my head
[Guest 2]: up before. But yeah, he's one year older to me. So we grew up in Pune. It was a beautiful
[Guest 2]: city to grow up in. And being the youngest son out of the two, my brother took the easy
[Guest 2]: way out and decided to do chemical engineering. So there's a lot of pressure to be a doctor.
[Guest 2]: And I think I took the easiest way out and told people I want to do hotel management.
[Guest 2]: And everyone now asks me this question, like, why did I do it? And this is pre internet,
[Guest 2]: where you could make a wiser decision. And I think it was some book I read, you know,
[Guest 2]: like a career counselor book, which just told you different careers. And I know my mom at
[Guest 2]: that time had already signed me up for medical entrance exam classes. And it wasn't her fault,
[Guest 2]: because I also hadn't said that I don't want to do it. So yeah, but I was as lucky both
[Guest 2]: my parents were very understanding to let me go into this. This was pre when restaurants
[Guest 2]: were sexy and glamorous. So I did that I did a three year course on hotel management out
[Guest 2]: of Goa. And post that I started working at the reception of a hotel in Bombay for a month,
[Guest 2]: got bored doing that, then moved to restaurants. And I never worked in a restaurant, a lively
[Guest 2]: restaurant and it just like the hustle and bustle just was something I really enjoyed.
[Guest 2]: So I worked as a server for a good year and a half became a supervisor did that for a
[Guest 2]: year and then went to Cornell to do my master's. That's when I met Sam. Post that I think being
[Guest 2]: in the US like changed the way I was looking at hospitality and how I was treated like
[Guest 2]: a robot in India like you were working long hours and just yes or no. So I just like I'd
[Guest 2]: never traveled abroad and it was my first outing. And it just changed the way you looked
[Guest 2]: at restaurants the way they were looking at restaurants. So I decided I wanted to go back
[Guest 2]: into the industry. So after my master's, I started working as a bartender in Chicago,
[Guest 2]: the same company I we got along really well. They moved me to Singapore to work as a jazz
[Guest 2]: bar manager. So you're 25 years old managing a jazz bar was quite glamorous.
[Amit Varma]: You know who else managed a jazz bar when he was 25? Haruki Murakami. Before he became
[Amit Varma]: a novelist in the late 1970s. He owned a jazz bar and he ran it but yeah, so you're in good
[Guest 2]: company there. And I had no idea what jazz music is. So I think he did better. So yeah,
[Guest 2]: did that I worked with this hotel group for another three years. In this time, I've been
[Guest 2]: a jazz bar manager. I've been a poolside manager. I've been a quality assurance manager. I did
[Guest 2]: a lot. And it was great experience. And I have some really, really funny stories from
[Guest 2]: the hotel ecosystem from figuring out what systems to use to keep birds away from eating
[Guest 2]: butcher muesli off a buffet to why we had to kill honeybees. So it's great, great stories
[Guest 2]: over drinks, but did that and I think it does one point that Sameer and me were just tired
[Guest 2]: and exhausted of working these long hours, but doing it for someone else. And he was
[Guest 2]: one tired call that he called me saying, and I still remember it was like, kuch karte hai.
[Guest 2]: I was like, yeah, sure. And that's how the journey started.
[Amit Varma]: So just to sort of double click on a few of those, it struck me when I was thinking about
[Amit Varma]: food and your journeys, that for a lot of us, obviously, you get drawn to a particular
[Amit Varma]: thing because you fall in love with some aspect of it. And then you realize that there's a
[Amit Varma]: lot of hard work and it's not so glamorous and all of that. But most things still have
[Amit Varma]: basically one dimension. You know, people might want to be a writer and then they find
[Amit Varma]: writing is hard work and that's fine. Right. But in this particular hospitality industry,
[Amit Varma]: there are so many aspects to it. You could fall in love with cooking and decide to become
[Amit Varma]: a chef and then you find out that shit, it's it's not what you thought it would be. Or
[Amit Varma]: you could fall in love with cooking and come towards hotel management and then find out
[Amit Varma]: that hey, the hospitality business is a whole different thing as you must have found out
[Amit Varma]: when you were serving in Bombay and all of that. So what drew you? What made you do hotel
[Amit Varma]: management in the first place? And like, did you want to cook? Did you just like that whole
[Amit Varma]: sense of building a hospitality ecosystem environment, whatever?
[Guest 2]: Again, like, this question gets asked a lot. And there's a couple of memories I had. So
[Guest 2]: we have a very small family in Pune. And so it was a good occasion that you went to a
[Guest 2]: restaurant like a good restaurant to eat. And our father used to take us to this hotel,
[Guest 2]: which later became the Taj, which in Pune is called the Blue Diamond. And they had a
[Guest 2]: coffee shop. I still remember we used to go there for the chicken sesame fingers. And
[Guest 2]: there used to be this manager there wearing a suit and was always orchestrating the team.
[Guest 2]: And I feel I always looked up to him being like, no, seems like guy knows what he's doing.
[Guest 2]: Like, that's one memory I have, to be honest. And apart from that, like, unlike when I look
[Guest 2]: at Sam's family and the way they eat every meal talking about the next meal, it wasn't
[Guest 2]: the same. We had great Maharashtrian food, like great fish fry, great chicken curry,
[Guest 2]: so good food. But I was never a foodie as such. So I don't know if it was that image
[Guest 2]: of that person that really inspired me. I'm going to give a 10 second gap for your editor
[Guest 2]: to tell you a funny story on that, because I feel you might have to edit it.
[Guest 2]: No, I'm not editing it out.
[Guest 2]: So my first or second day of hotel management, like you said, you know, in a lot of government
[Guest 2]: colleges, ragging still continues. And there were different forms of it happening. But
[Guest 2]: we were served food. So as a part of our curriculum, as you go when you're senior, you have to
[Guest 2]: cook food in huge quantities. So instead of just throwing it away, you serve that in the
[Guest 2]: cafeteria. So your seniors used to serve you food. So if you were a junior, you used to
[Guest 2]: get a lot of rice and like one drop of dal. And now to get the sabzi, you would have had
[Guest 2]: to answer a question. So generally, it was just nonsense questions. But I remember this
[Guest 2]: one because I know this guy and I still know he's in the industry. And he asked me, why
[Guest 2]: did you join the hotel industry? And I was like, I love interacting with people. That's
[Amit Varma]: why and he's like, toh chinal bante the, what chinal, I'm sorry, a prostitute. Oh, okay.
[Unknown]: So I mean, I laugh because I knew it was funny. But yeah, and here's the one fact I didn't
[Amit Varma]: know. Yeah. Which is demeaning to prostitutes, honestly, because it's an honest profession.
[Guest 2]: And like, yeah, so that's like, it's been a like, for me, it's been a very heartwarming
[Guest 2]: journey since since then, it couldn't have gotten any lower. But I still I, in whatever
[Guest 2]: we do, I know a lot of us, I spend a lot of time now in ideation and like behind the scenes.
[Guest 2]: But when we are in our restaurants, and like, just the drama unfolding and operations going
[Guest 2]: on food going out, it's just that energy, I think that keeps me going. I think that's
[Amit Varma]: what drove me towards it as well. And was there also an element of then learning how
[Amit Varma]: to get along with people figuring out all of those dynamics, because it's one thing
[Amit Varma]: to an abstract, say, right here, like hanging with people are like coordinating things.
[Amit Varma]: But when you're like, what was the reality like when you actually got into the industry
[Guest 2]: here and in the US, for example. So reality here is, it's in a non censored way, it was
[Guest 2]: very, very difficult. I also think as I joined, started to work when I was 20, I was a very
[Guest 2]: naive 20 year old. So when I was working, and I'm not kidding, when I was working 16
[Guest 2]: hours a day, I still was energetic after 16 hours a day, and I was just enjoying it. Now,
[Guest 2]: what happens is a lot of hotels in India, especially come from international brand standards.
[Guest 2]: So there is someone in Canada saying, cappuccino needs to be served in four minutes, fine.
[Guest 2]: But if I'm serving breakfast to 500 people, and the Indian owner decided that this restaurant
[Guest 2]: of 100 covers, or 100 seats for everyone can have only one cappuccino maker. And in India,
[Guest 2]: cappuccino is the one common coffee order. It just can't happen. So you have to be on
[Guest 2]: roller skates. That hustle of you know, we, for me at that time, I was like a horse in
[Guest 2]: a race with those blinders on. And my target was five minutes of cappuccino. Like those
[Guest 2]: things got instilled in me in the Indian restaurant system was a standard, you have to follow
[Guest 2]: it. There's no idea why it was we've never saw the bigger picture. We used to have a
[Guest 2]: white asparagus festival, Italian festival, we never tasted that white asparagus, we never
[Guest 2]: got to taste the food to explain it. So if I'm explaining it to a guest at the restaurant,
[Guest 2]: then I would use to say, this pizza is going to have cheese and don't have white asparagus.
[Guest 2]: I'm not going to tell him that the texture is going to be it's going to be nice and crunchy,
[Guest 2]: the white asparagus will be a little bit sour. All those things never came to your mind because
[Guest 2]: you never tasted the food. But then, and I feel now it's changed a lot. There was no
[Guest 2]: respect given to you from team members. And from guests in team members, there was always
[Guest 2]: that we've come up the ranks the hard way. So you have to do it as well. I feel that's
[Guest 2]: there in every industry in India. But I honestly feel that's changed a lot. But from the guests
[Guest 2]: also, it was the same. There's a slight like you are a lower entitlement and like that
[Guest 2]: sense of entitlement. I remember serving someone a bowl of French fries. And this is that like
[Guest 2]: one in the morning. So definitely that person was also nursing a hangover or drunk. And
[Guest 2]: you know, there's one fry which will have that one dark brown into it. And it was right
[Guest 2]: on top of the fire. And the first thing he points out and he says, it's burnt. And the
[Guest 2]: first thing you're taught is just to apologize. And I was like, I'm sorry. So he stood up
[Guest 2]: and he didn't he didn't slap me, but he moved his arm and he's like, if I slap you right
[Guest 2]: now and say sorry, that's fine, right? And like you again, say sorry, and just like,
[Guest 2]: you know, take it away. As in there are instances like that, for me in that moment, didn't mean
[Guest 2]: anything like I was obviously a bit nervous. And when I start thinking back into it, like
[Guest 2]: if it was someone who was a bit more sensitive to that situation could have thrown him out
[Guest 2]: of the industry. And it's happened to many 90% of my my classmates. In the first year
[Guest 2]: of us graduating, I feel 50% of them would have joined a call center, or maybe the airline
[Guest 2]: industry. But within the next two, three years, I would say 90% of them were out of the industry.
[Amit Varma]: So sort of related question to both of you, like, one thing that people often say quite
[Amit Varma]: correctly is that if you want to understand, like one way to figure out the real character
[Amit Varma]: of a person is to see how he or she treats people lower in status to them, like the wait
[Amit Varma]: staff and all that. And in India, honestly, most people would fail that test, right? And
[Amit Varma]: there is, and I'm just wondering about why, you know, of all people, you'd imagine that
[Amit Varma]: we would be though we are desperately poor country, you know, we would be the most sensitive
[Amit Varma]: to that, and the most empathetic to that. And yet we are the most rudest, most entitled
[Amit Varma]: bunch of, I mean, I'm sorry for generalizing and it's on my limited experience of what
[Amit Varma]: I've seen you guys no doubt have a far bigger sample size to judge from. But why do you
[Amit Varma]: think that is? And is it generally the case that Indians do tend to be more entitled and,
[Amit Varma]: you know, the class and status plays such a big part in this?
[Guest 1]: We've spoken about this so much over the last eight years that we've been running Hunger
[Guest 1]: Inc, which is the company. We always say in India, like service equals servitude. Wow.
[Guest 1]: And that is what you've been taught up to do, right? Like the thought that someone serving
[Guest 1]: you is beneath you in a certain way, just because of the class distinctions we've all
[Guest 1]: grown up with around us. That's the model we've always seen. And that is so ingrained
[Guest 1]: that it's very hard to break. And one of the biggest things which we have, I feel, worked
[Guest 1]: on is like, how do you instill that confidence in whoever is serving you or making you your
[Guest 1]: drink or cooking that dish for you, to have that conversation as an equal? It's hard,
[Guest 1]: it's not easy to sort of break years and years of conditioning to someone walks into a restaurant,
[Guest 1]: they're obviously of a different socioeconomic class, you are serving them, you know your
[Guest 1]: life and it's a confidence gap there in having the conversation. And funnily enough, it's
[Guest 1]: the same people who go abroad and like, wow, the service and like, oh my god, like these
[Guest 1]: guys showed me such a great time, they treated me like an equal, they showed me around, they
[Guest 1]: give us their recommendation lists, etc, etc, because it's a conversation between equals.
[Guest 1]: And that so often doesn't happen here because of just the conditioning we've all gone through.
[Guest 1]: Like I remember when I switched out of banking and was joining the hospitality world, like
[Guest 1]: it or not, my grandmom said, bank chhod ke parathe beshne jaa rahe ho. And that is, and
[Guest 1]: she said it in the sweetest possible way, but it's that same conditioning that you're
[Guest 1]: used to. And that's just the reality of it, right? Like you can't...
[Amit Varma]: That's a great title for your biography also, bank chhod ke parathe beshne jaa rahe ho,
[Guest 2]: lovely.
[Guest 1]: I love this Ferrari.
[Guest 1]: So and I think it's so true, you can make out so much of a person in seeing them sort
[Guest 1]: of deal with someone in a restaurant. It says more than any conversation does, in my opinion.
[Amit Varma]: And how do you train your guys to deal with the exact kind of situation that you just
[Amit Varma]: described Yash that you have someone and you can't even if you even politely tell him please
[Amit Varma]: don't talk like that, he'll lose it even more, right? So how do you?
[Guest 2]: So you know, one of the things and I completely agree with what Sam said, and Sam's always
[Guest 2]: been the much more calmer, level headed, mature person in it. And...
[Guest 1]: It's on the record.
[Guest 2]: The worry is, it's happened. And I say it's improved a lot. Like, I see a drastic change
[Guest 2]: in the way all of us interact. But I still remember one of the early incidents which
[Guest 2]: scarred me. And I was 28, 29. And it was at Bombay Canteen. But the girl who was working
[Guest 2]: with us, standing next to me was her first job. So she must have been 20. And we were
[Guest 2]: both at the desk and this guest just went at me and he wasn't going at her, he was going
[Guest 2]: at me. And it was about us not giving a table to one of his friends who didn't have a reservation.
[Guest 2]: But someone else got it and he looked at that person's socioeconomic class and said, like,
[Guest 2]: you need to realize in life, some people need you need to be given better treatment too.
[Guest 2]: And he was using words like that. And when you look at these people, these are people
[Guest 2]: who are well educated, who've grown up in a great family, and that's the least expected
[Guest 2]: thing from their mouth. But what I'm more worried about is this girl, who's just got
[Guest 2]: into the industry, and she's going to be scarred for life. So there are some instances, to
[Guest 2]: be honest, where it then needs us to counsel the employees after. But before it, we always
[Guest 2]: say is something that industry leaders or hospitality leaders called Danny Meyer, Sameer
[Guest 2]: worked with him, said, and he's written a book, it's called setting the table, which
[Guest 2]: I is the first book I tell people when they want to join the industry. And he came about
[Guest 2]: this about hospitality first, is treat your team how you would like to be treated or treat
[Guest 2]: their employees how you would be treated. And his whole thing was as an owner, if you
[Guest 2]: treat them with respect, they will treat your guests with respect. So it starts with us,
[Guest 2]: right. And it starts with as simple as if we are having lunch, or if you're having dinner
[Guest 2]: with them, pick up your own plate and go and keep it in the back area. You can't, you know,
[Guest 2]: we have we are all sitting together, everything is a signal, everything is a signal, right.
[Guest 2]: And it needs to start from there. I also we say this a lot, our restaurant team today
[Guest 2]: don't see us as often helping them out, because there's so many things on our book. But first
[Guest 2]: two years of Bombay Canteen, like we were there every day, we used to take the we had
[Guest 2]: a phone like a thing, we used to take it home one day and with the book. So at night, if
[Guest 2]: anyone called, we used to take reservations, like people were calling at odd times used
[Guest 2]: to be like, why? And seeing you in the trenches with them, the way we are talking to guests,
[Guest 2]: and we used to always tell them at any point, you feel that there's a sense of abuse or
[Guest 2]: something that is unfair. Come to us. Don't, don't tell me after and we've had and they've
[Guest 1]: seen us telling guests to politely leave the restaurant being like, and that incident that
[Guest 1]: Yash referred to was the start of our blacklist. Like if you are rude to anyone, we don't want
[Guest 1]: your business. And you're definitely not welcome back. Amazing. And you've actually kicked
[Guest 1]: people out of the restaurant. We've actually told people to leave. Yeah, we've told people
[Guest 1]: to leave. And especially like it, you know, when you're starting off as your own business,
[Guest 1]: you're unsure about so many things. Like I think it took us two, three incidents, especially
[Guest 1]: in the early days of Bombay Canteen, it was mayhem, like, you know, good way for us. Like
[Guest 1]: it was everyone wanted to be there. And everyone wanted to come in. And, but we realized very
[Guest 1]: quickly, like if we didn't draw a line in the sand at that point, like the signal it
[Guest 1]: would send to our teams that we don't stand by them was far worse in the long run. And
[Guest 1]: for the culture we were hoping to build than anything else. And that's something like we
[Guest 1]: just took a conscious decision to sort of follow through on. And so and every, every,
[Guest 1]: every situation is different. So you have to treat it as such. But I think it's something
[Guest 1]: we've tried to stand by at every given point that especially if you are, if you have a
[Guest 1]: right to, if you've done something wrong, 100%, we should make amends. But that does
[Guest 1]: not give you the right to be abusive. It does not give you the right to be rude at all.
[Guest 1]: There's nothing you've done or bought to the restaurant that gives you that entitlement
[Guest 1]: that we're clear on.
[Guest 2]: But do you know that same thing you spoke about? Like there's that saying that the way
[Guest 2]: someone treats someone at a restaurant, I think in today's day and age, today's day
[Guest 2]: and age, India, it should be about how we treat the delivery guy, right? The Amazon
[Guest 2]: guy when they call. So we've, both of us have done, we do a lot of deliveries, especially
[Guest 2]: when Bombay Sweetshop opened during COVID, like we just didn't have people, right? So
[Guest 2]: as in, orders needed to go out, they needed to go out. So obviously, like I have a car.
[Guest 2]: So then I used to be sitting and then he used to be the navigator. And like, we did like
[Guest 2]: 25 deliveries a day. So it was painful. But we had the luxury of sitting in a car and
[Guest 2]: going. So most security guards, when they saw the car, used to think I'm a guest. And
[Guest 2]: then when I said, no, I've come for a delivery, the tone also changes. Right now, I was just,
[Guest 2]: we used to always discuss this, that, imagine we are sitting in a car, still there's a,
[Guest 2]: but complete difference. And like, even the simpler things, yaha jao, waha jao, like even
[Guest 2]: the way that because that's such a big industry now, right? Like the way delivery guys are
[Guest 2]: treated. We've changed a lot of things on our side, once we started doing deliveries
[Guest 2]: on how do you make their lives a bit easier? Because first, even we used to think that,
[Guest 2]: you know, why can't they do more deliveries, x, y and z? How do you make the load lighter
[Guest 2]: for them? Because once we did it, and we're like, this is not easy at all. And we've done
[Guest 2]: like every peak festival, may it be Raksha Bandhan, Diwali, we have to do it. So now
[Guest 2]: we do it in separate cars, because it's better to have him with a driver and a navigator
[Guest 2]: and like, just do more. But even the way like when you pick up the phone and call someone
[Guest 2]: and say, Hi, I have a delivery from Bombay Sweetshop. And they are just like, haa, chod
[Guest 2]: do security ke paas. Right? Like, so I think that same thing is like, for me changed the
[Guest 2]: way even I started like when Amazon calls me being like, I can't find your address because
[Guest 2]: Indians can't write addresses. Honestly, I don't know why it's so we don't put it as
[Guest 2]: per that the Google way of putting it so we'll write opposite people kajad. Google doesn't
[Guest 2]: pick that up on our automatic system, right? So it's changed my perception on when Amazon
[Guest 2]: will call me saying address name and our delivery. So I think that's the next learning for us
[Guest 2]: is like, how do we get better at that as well?
[Amit Varma]: That's a fantastic learning for me as well. And I'm guessing there are like, a few hundred
[Amit Varma]: people listening to this thinking, fuck, my delivery was brought by those guys. Why was
[Guest 1]: I rude to him? People do get shocked, like, especially first two years of Bombay Canteen
[Guest 1]: as Yash was saying, like when he and I would walk up with like the plates or take an order
[Guest 1]: and even now in the last two years at the sweet shop and we show up with the delivery.
[Guest 1]: Like, it's funny, right? It goes back to the same conditioning that we were talking about.
[Guest 1]: Like you're just, you're the owner. Are you sure? So, and I think it's just culturally
[Guest 1]: ingrained in us, unfortunately. And so, as in the hope and dream is that slowly but surely
[Guest 1]: like that evolves.
[Amit Varma]: So let's let's talk about your journey now, Sam. And you weren't even you took a very
[Amit Varma]: different route to getting into this business. So tell me a little bit about that and what
[Guest 1]: you did before you sold parathas.
[Guest 1]: I think life started with like being around food as Yash was talking about earlier, like
[Guest 1]: I come from a family that spends every meal talking about the next meal. I was born in
[Guest 1]: Lucknow, but grew up a little bit all over Bangalore, Calcutta, and but mostly in Delhi,
[Guest 1]: and come from a large family that's obsessed with food. And I think when I'd always seen
[Guest 1]: that, but also, I think, came from a family that was my dad was in the corporate side
[Guest 1]: of things in the tech industry, my mom was a teacher. And it was always expected that
[Guest 1]: you would do certain things to progress your career. So I did an undergrad in chemistry,
[Guest 1]: and then went on to do an MBA from I am cozy code two years in Kerala were amazing. But
[Guest 1]: as a 22 year old, doing an MBA, like I didn't know the O of organize OB, which was organizational
[Guest 1]: behavior, what it meant I'd never worked before, like, so you're theoretically learning all
[Guest 1]: this, but you do have no idea. And then you did the next logical thing, you apply to all
[Guest 1]: these companies, I was fortunate enough to get a job with Citibank and came to Bombay
[Guest 1]: in 2005. And I think around then, I like loved working in Bombay with Citibank. And like
[Guest 1]: at that point, like, I was in the mortgage division over here. And funnily enough, my
[Guest 1]: life has always revolved around real estate as a result, whether in banking or in restaurants.
[Guest 1]: And, but at that time, also realized that as I was doing it, I would move back to Delhi,
[Guest 1]: like, this thought had always struck me when I was in college that I wanted to do something
[Guest 1]: around the world of food, but had no idea how to do it. Like at every time, point in
[Guest 1]: time that I'd wanted to do something close to hotel management or food, I was always
[Guest 1]: told that career myth or a kuch kardo and then go look at that right. And I think in
[Guest 1]: 2007, I was like, I'm done. Like, I think this is as far as I can go. Like it was two
[Guest 1]: and a half years in as a 26 year old, I was like, really like questioning what was going
[Guest 1]: to happen next, because I was up for a move in the bank. And every move that was being
[Guest 1]: presented to me didn't make sense. And without telling my parents, I had a conversation with
[Guest 1]: a restaurant I used to, it was run by some people we knew, so went and met one of the
[Guest 1]: partners one day. And he was a jovial guy, like, I still remember, Sanghi uncle was like,
[Guest 1]: ha beta, ajo, like, join. So this was a small restaurant group in Delhi. And in all the
[Guest 1]: excitement that someone has given me, offered me a job, I went and without talking to anyone,
[Guest 1]: I quit. And obviously, this is even funnier, because I went and met Sanghi uncle's partner
[Guest 1]: a few weeks later before I was supposed to join. And the guy was like, yeah, I heard
[Guest 1]: you were joining. I don't know what you're going to do. And but you join, we'll figure
[Guest 1]: out and then we'll see how much salary to give you after we figured out what and I didn't
[Guest 1]: have the proverbial balls to go tell my parents that I'm joining, but no money is coming in.
[Guest 1]: I've just quit banking. And I'm joining, which is when my grandmom famously regaled, bank
[Guest 1]: chod ke parathe beshne ja rahe ho. If she'd known ki paise bhi nahi ban rahe to, next
[Guest 1]: level of conversations, but I kept that to myself for a fairly long time. And I think
[Guest 1]: at that stage, fortunately, like we were they were in the process of opening three restaurants
[Guest 1]: in Delhi. And I just deep dove into that, like and I loved every minute of it, the energy
[Guest 1]: of it, the craziness of it, there is a certain adrenaline you get when you're on the floor
[Guest 1]: of a restaurant. And I was more on the marketing finance side of things. And long story short,
[Guest 1]: these guys saw value in what I brought to the table and came in and I learned a lot
[Guest 1]: about what this business was about, like in the deep end of it, there was it was like
[Guest 1]: learning by doing. And the first year was amazing, opened three restaurants at complete
[Guest 1]: high and then the tides turned on them, shut almost six, seven restaurants over the next
[Guest 1]: two years and saw the full sort of trajectory of what to do. And at that point, I always
[Guest 1]: wanted to do my own thing, but had no clue about like, what it was how to do it had spent
[Guest 1]: about a couple of years in the industry, it was a confusing time. And fortunately, I had
[Guest 1]: a friend's father who was a mentor to me, who convinced me and showed me about what
[Guest 1]: the Cornell Hotel School can do. And I'm so glad I took that decision. Only because like
[Guest 1]: I feel as Yash was mentioning earlier, like it really opens your mind to step out of India
[Guest 1]: and go into another sort of education system. And he and I were classmates there, met the
[Guest 1]: first night, drank till four in the morning, joked about like we were on the F&B track
[Guest 1]: of our class. And we joked that even at that point that someday we'll do something together.
[Guest 1]: And I think but what was amazing about Cornell was like, it just allowed you to ask questions,
[Guest 1]: it allowed you to like just deep dive into whatever you wanted. We had a few professors
[Guest 1]: in the F&B system who just were great at like mentoring you to ask questions of the things
[Guest 1]: which you never thought were important. One of the first things like when and her name
[Guest 1]: Stephanie Robson, she used to teach a class called restaurant development. When she heard
[Guest 1]: my story of like having gone through the experience in Delhi, she was like, what you should do
[Guest 1]: is sounds like there were a lot of things that went wrong, but you should go do an independent
[Guest 1]: study and see what did restaurants here in the US do to avoid the same pitfalls. And
[Guest 1]: she sort of became my sort of guide at that point and allowed me to do a six month independent
[Guest 1]: study, which was just a reflection on my last three years is what it turned out to be, but
[Guest 1]: also opened the doors to have conversations with many interesting people to see how do
[Guest 1]: you do what you do in this business. And it was a complete change in terms of like, to
[Guest 1]: give you a simple example, my first job in New York was with a French restaurant group
[Guest 1]: called, which was run by the chef called Daniel Boulud. We have a ritual in every restaurant
[Guest 1]: across the world, it's followed, it's called briefing. Before every meal, lunch or dinner,
[Guest 1]: the team meets and you brief each other and what's coming up in the next few hours. India
[Guest 1]: typically it would be a grooming check, like is your uniform like straight, are your nails
[Guest 1]: clipped, is your light, those days smoking used to be allowed, is your lighter working
[Guest 1]: so that in case someone needs a light, you get that. And here on the flip side, my second
[Guest 1]: day here, and this is the point Yash was making, we were tasting the specials of the day we
[Guest 1]: were having being trained on the wine briefing was one and a half hours long, where it was
[Guest 1]: an education period for the entire team to see what how do you do what you do, and not
[Guest 1]: just check a few boxes and now go and sell some food. And it was crazy because I'd never
[Guest 1]: been in an environment like that. And following up with that is when I met Chef Floyd, I'd
[Guest 1]: met him a little earlier and the hope and dream was always to work with him and Danny
[Guest 1]: Meyer, who wrote setting the table because like, as I think both of us read the book
[Guest 1]: at the same time. This was something which was just like radical thinking from what we
[Guest 1]: had been brought up and I wanted to be in that system to see how it actually sort of
[Guest 1]: came to life and to be able to get a chance to work with Danny to work with Chef Floyd
[Guest 1]: to actually open a restaurant in New York City was like an unbelievable experience,
[Guest 1]: like got thrown into the deep end, absolutely. And that one one year and a few months was
[Guest 1]: like, the hardest I've ever worked I feel and I think we've done many more hard things
[Guest 1]: but because it was so new to me, it just feels much harder. And but like the relationships
[Guest 1]: when made the like, I'm still in touch with like, my colleagues from then like, it was
[Guest 1]: almost like you went to battle together like opening a restaurant in New York was like,
[Guest 1]: you go through the review system of the New York Times, which is a whole story on itself.
[Guest 1]: And like you deal with guests who expect the best and want the best and how do you give
[Guest 1]: it to them and it all boils down to like the culture, the education, like it's all sort
[Guest 1]: of slow and steady building, it doesn't happen overnight, like that was the biggest thing.
[Guest 1]: So and all of it like kind of started informing the kind of restaurant I would hope to open
[Guest 1]: one day and that kind of led to that call to Yash eventually, wherein we were like,
[Guest 1]: we want to do this back back home and we spent a lot of time, obviously, you have to come
[Guest 1]: up with the concept of what you're doing, but also about how we want to do it. And I
[Guest 1]: think we've touched on some of the topics around service and respect. All of this came
[Guest 1]: from some of those experiences that one had, because if I hadn't seen it play out firsthand,
[Guest 1]: where respect actually leads to better outcomes, like maybe we would have had very different
[Guest 1]: sort of outlooks to life. But I'm glad we were exposed to that we were privileged to
[Guest 1]: be exposed to that and, and better for it now.
[Amit Varma]: So a bunch of things I want to double click on. And first is a personal element that when
[Amit Varma]: you decide to give up banking to make parathas, as it were, there is a push and there is a
[Amit Varma]: pull, there is a push in the sense that there is a reason you don't want to do banking anymore,
[Amit Varma]: you feel it's not for you. And then there is a pull that you want to be part of this
[Amit Varma]: industry. And as you know, in Yash's case, as he pointed out, he loved interacting with
[Amit Varma]: people and just that whole experience of being a guy in a suit in a hotel saying, white asparagus
[Amit Varma]: So tell me a little bit about the push and the pull for you. And just in terms of sort
[Amit Varma]: of getting to understand you better, what was it that made you feel the banking world
[Amit Varma]: in the corporate world was not for you? And what was it that really attracted you to this
[Amit Varma]: food business?
[Guest 1]: I think that I think there are two aspects to it. I think in college, there was a festival
[Guest 1]: that was happening, St Stephen's used to have a festival called Harmony. And I was part
[Guest 1]: of the organization committee in it. And I think there was something about like being
[Guest 1]: on that organization committee, especially first year, I remember, where like bringing
[Guest 1]: something to life from the scratch, like had this aura in my mind, like it was just like
[Guest 1]: exhilarating. But also like, I think food for me has been a very, as I was saying earlier,
[Guest 1]: like being a very central aspect of like, no one was in the industry. But my aunts would
[Guest 1]: be like amazing cooks. And like, they would constantly be talking about what what's being
[Guest 1]: made, we would go out as a family more and more as we grew up. And it was amazing to
[Guest 1]: walk into like, I still remember there was this one restaurant in Delhi at the Hyatt.
[Guest 1]: I think it was called Angan and they had this one kebab, which was like basically a fried
[Guest 1]: egg. And the yolk had been removed. And there was a kebab hidden beneath the yolk. And I
[Guest 1]: don't know, is this memory I have of seeing it and being like, I love eggs, I love meat,
[Guest 1]: this is perfect. And like it was one of those. It was one of those moments where you don't
[Guest 1]: forget, we were talking earlier at lunch as well, like there's something about the memories
[Guest 1]: around food, which is just so strong. And I was very clear as a 22 year old that I wanted
[Guest 1]: to be in the world of food somehow. I don't know where that push and pull as you call
[Guest 1]: it came from. I think it was just, again, just the growing up around food that has caused
[Guest 1]: it. And I have an uncle who is a phenomenal, phenomenal cook. So every childhood would
[Guest 1]: be he lived across Bangkok and Dubai, etc, would be traveling to him. And I remember
[Guest 1]: in Bangkok, like he would make some of the best Thai food, as in one had never been exposed
[Guest 1]: to like regional Thai food or anything, but just watching him cook would be like, unbelievable.
[Guest 1]: And I think all these experiences added up to just saying that this is what I want to
[Guest 1]: do, this is what I want to do. And eventually led to that tipping point, so to speak of
[Guest 1]: taking that steps. And once I stepped behind the curtain, as I think you were saying earlier,
[Guest 1]: like people then realize it's too hard and then back off. Like I wanted to get more and
[Guest 1]: more into it. It was no turning back at that point.
[Amit Varma]: And when you talk of the differences between, you know, what you saw the the asking questions
[Amit Varma]: of figuring out the why's behind everything, you know, why give a cappuccino in four minutes,
[Amit Varma]: for example, and you look at India, you know, what, how much of a mental shift was that
[Amit Varma]: because I imagine that if if the culture on the serving side is different, it is both
[Amit Varma]: by it is both caused by and a cause of the culture on the eating side being different.
[Amit Varma]: So over here, my imagination would be or thinking back on the 80s and the 90s, the rare occasions
[Amit Varma]: in the 80s, when our parents would take us out, is that you're going out and you're going
[Amit Varma]: to get good food. And that's it. And nobody else really exists. You know, the experience
[Amit Varma]: per se is you know, you want to be in a fancy place with air conditioning, but that's a
[Amit Varma]: five star hotel, five star hotel. And that's a food experience and you're getting the food
[Amit Varma]: and at the same time at the serving end from what you describe and what I've heard from
[Amit Varma]: others, it can very much be a life of drudgery for everybody except the people at the top
[Amit Varma]: making the decisions or, you know, for everyone else, you're just kind of ticking boxes making
[Amit Varma]: 800 cappuccinos a day in four minutes each, for example. And I don't find that exciting.
[Amit Varma]: You know, if I was to be part of the profession, you know, what is there to motivate me to
[Amit Varma]: say ki 20 saal baad mein chef banunga? You know, so how different is that? How different
[Amit Varma]: are the food cultures of these places? And would you, you know, you mentioned that you
[Amit Varma]: were excited anyway, by your experience in Delhi, setting up those restaurants and everything
[Amit Varma]: that happened by just the activity and the buzz of creating something new. But in general,
[Amit Varma]: do you think that the industries are so different as to be almost entirely different?
[Guest 1]: Between the two countries? Yeah, I think so. I think but it's converging now. I think you're
[Guest 1]: seeing a convergence over a period of time. I think it's slow. I think it goes back to
[Guest 1]: the point I was making where like, if you start involving those who are serving and
[Guest 1]: part of the service team into the thinking behind the product and thinking behind the
[Guest 1]: food, and that's what we kind of do, right? Like, chef Hussain, for example, will go out
[Guest 1]: and like, talk to the team and talk about like, what was his thinking, when he was thinking
[Guest 1]: when he was creating the dish, and while they're tasting it. So it's starting to connect the
[Guest 1]: dots on that. And then you, if you have loved it, think about it, like if you are a server,
[Guest 1]: you eaten something that evening, and now you have to go relay that experience, not
[Guest 1]: something you've memorized, but an experience you had yourself to a guest is going to be
[Guest 1]: a completely different conversation. And he and I always talk, Yash and I always talk
[Guest 1]: about like, a restaurant's instant validation, you know, when someone's enjoying themselves,
[Guest 1]: and you will feed off that energy, if you're serving someone. And I think that was one
[Guest 1]: of the hardest things in the pandemic, like, for our teams was, you were working, you were
[Guest 1]: doing the same work, but you were packing it in a box and shipping it out. There was
[Guest 1]: no one to interact with, there was no one to like, no one smile to sort of feed off
[Guest 1]: and things to deal with. They were all sort of logistical tasks that you were doing. And
[Guest 1]: I think that in itself tells you just psychologically how, what a difference it makes to be in a
[Guest 1]: physical world versus a digital world. And I think, slowly but surely, we see more and
[Guest 1]: more restaurants in this city and in other cities in India sort of moving towards this.
[Guest 2]: And so I have a contesting view on why they've been different also, because if you look at
[Guest 2]: the Western world, anyone and anyone at some point worked in a restaurant, you might be
[Guest 2]: a famous actor now, but when you were between 16 to 20, you've waited tables, you might
[Guest 2]: be an entrepreneur or a businessman, and they've done it. So that respect is there, because
[Guest 2]: I personally waited tables. And even now, like even when we travel, and this is I don't
[Guest 2]: like fancy meals at all. So even at the fun, casual restaurants, the servers who are taking
[Guest 2]: care of you could be a film student. So he or she is getting this amazing personality
[Guest 2]: to the table. And all you have to do is just train him or her to understand the dish, but
[Guest 2]: the way they're explaining it is so joyous, right? And it just creates a different experience.
[Guest 2]: That doesn't happen here, you know, and I always feel like I tell Sameer, his banking,
[Guest 2]: it's been so long back, but his chain of thought or the way he thinks about something, and
[Guest 2]: he brought that into the hospitality industry is what this industry needs. We don't need
[Guest 2]: people who go to hotel management, right? We don't there is nothing like now, the reason
[Guest 2]: I feel the world's are getting better for us is now for my team, like even coffee earlier,
[Guest 2]: we were just pulling it out of a WMF machine. Now coffee also has got its own respect, you
[Guest 2]: can get I think Bombay is making some of the best coffee in the world right now, right?
[Guest 2]: So they can see their passion in that we started something called as canteen class, where on
[Guest 2]: a Saturday, we used to shut down the restaurant in the afternoons. And we used to invite students
[Guest 2]: from all hospitality schools. And it wasn't mandatory. And it came from when I was in
[Guest 2]: hospitality school in Goa. And when I started working my first job, and someone gave me
[Guest 2]: a bottle of wine to open, I didn't know how to open a bottle of wine, because I never
[Guest 2]: saw a bottle of wine in in three years of his life. I saw an empty bottle of wine, which
[Guest 2]: Pepsi was filled in and I was pouring out of it. So for me, when we started Bombay canteen,
[Guest 2]: I remember telling him after the first year, I was like, we need to do something for these
[Guest 2]: students, because they might not join us. But I still feel education level in some of
[Guest 2]: these schools is not great. And I was going to some of these schools to just give some
[Guest 2]: kind of inspirational in quotes talks. But I was being filtered by the dean of that school
[Guest 2]: to say what actually I wanted to say. And what I actually wanted to say was hotel management
[Guest 2]: schools in India are conveyor belts for hotels to get robots. That's it is just a factory
[Guest 2]: robots come out of it. Whereas now if you look at the hospitality industry, you could
[Guest 2]: be making some of the best cheese at home. Someone needs to inspire these kids to think
[Guest 2]: about that you could be making the best beer. Everything has become so much more accessible.
[Guest 2]: And we as industry leaders as such need to inspire this next generation to say, we don't
[Guest 2]: need you to come work in the restaurant, you could be making the best sardo bread at home
[Guest 2]: on banana bread, like we all did during lockdown. And you won't might want to work two hours
[Guest 2]: in a restaurant. And that's when these younger people start coming into the industry who
[Guest 2]: know that, okay, I need to get from x to y, and y will be making the best coffee that
[Guest 2]: India will be proud of. But till then, I need to work two years in Bombay candy, I'm going
[Guest 2]: to make the most of it. That's when I feel like, you know, all restaurants together will
[Amit Varma]: start improving.
[Amit Varma]: One thing that I sometimes think about is how do you find passion in what you do? Like
[Amit Varma]: most people, there is they're going through the motions. Like today, I think I have found
[Amit Varma]: passion in a sense in podcasting, I think about it deeply, I've really trying hard to
[Amit Varma]: figure it out, so on and so forth. But most of my life, even the things that I've been
[Amit Varma]: really good at, like being a writer, being a columnist, you go through the motions, you
[Amit Varma]: got a weekly deadline, you do it, you know, when I was in cricket journalism, you watch
[Amit Varma]: a match, you write the report, there's no passion, you're kind of going through the
[Amit Varma]: drifts. Now, with both of you, it's it's kind of obvious that there is that passion and
[Amit Varma]: excitement, which is perennially present. And I want to ask about your journey of finding
[Amit Varma]: it or getting it like, when Chef Lloyd died, you had a very moving post on Instagram about
[Amit Varma]: this 45 minute meeting with him, and how you felt at the end of it, and how energized and
[Amit Varma]: you know, how much that meant to you. So just the same question to both of you, that, where
[Amit Varma]: is that moment? Like, was there a moment, for example, perhaps when you were working
[Amit Varma]: in India or whatever, was there a moment where it felt like drudgery? And you're like, you
[Amit Varma]: know, what the fuck is this? What did I fall in love with? And how did that awaken that
[Amit Varma]: thing of like, you know, going beyond that, and just being so excited and so awake and
[Guest 2]: alive?
[Guest 2]: So there have been bad moments in, in years of Bombay canteen also, right? Like, when
[Guest 2]: you asked me what are the things that Sameer doesn't know about me, sadly knows everything,
[Guest 2]: because he's also made me cry about something for such a silly reason. But he's he knows
[Guest 2]: I'm a very emotional person. So one of the times when I've sat outside our own restaurant,
[Guest 2]: and literally held my head and just like cry, it was, sadly, the Kamla mill fire tragedy
[Guest 2]: had happened. And obviously, was such a bad tragedy. But what happened after that, for
[Guest 2]: even honest restauranteurs who are doing business the right way wasn't fair at all. And that's
[Guest 2]: when like I always say it, a restauranteur in India spends more time dealing with problems
[Guest 2]: outside his or her restaurant than in it. And that's when sometimes we lose the passion.
[Guest 2]: And we start doing it like, you know, it's a it's a revenue business. And obviously,
[Guest 2]: business does matter a lot. And once we had gone to New York, and we helped Chef Floyd
[Guest 2]: open his restaurant, and I was there for a good month and a half. And one of our guests
[Guest 2]: who's from India who met me there, and I was working in the restaurant, he's like, you
[Guest 2]: look so much happier working here. And I was like, because all I do is every day come check
[Guest 2]: every guest if they're enjoying making sure the team is fine, and not worried about if
[Guest 2]: someone dug the road in front of us or cut off electricity for God knows what reason.
[Guest 2]: So in the first three years of my career, 21 to 23, I would have had those days, but
[Guest 2]: that would have been more person related where someone treat me treated me really badly.
[Guest 2]: But I did not lose sight at that point. I always knew I wanted to do something. My dad
[Guest 2]: had this saying that, as in he's a neurosurgeon in Pune, and he used to always say this, like
[Guest 2]: my business and like my life, I'm a taxi driver. The day I put my meter on, I get paid. Basically,
[Guest 2]: if I'm not on that surgery table, no one else can do it. And I don't get paid. Right. So
[Guest 2]: he's like, always think about your life where you could do a business where you're not there
[Guest 2]: all the time. So that business Kida was there. But there have been moments in the last five,
[Guest 2]: six years, and I openly talk about it on my Instagram as well that there are so many failures
[Guest 2]: we've gone through, or incidents where we it wasn't our fault, and we made the brunt
[Guest 2]: of it. And I've just lost all hope and being like, why did I come back to this? So it does
[Guest 2]: happen. But it all it takes is like, maybe one email from a guest who tells us like how
[Guest 2]: like Chitranjan in the restaurant took care of them. And like, you know, I love when people
[Guest 2]: you know, I love this podcast. So far where it's for an hour, we didn't talk about a chef.
[Guest 2]: Like we love Chef Floyd, but restaurants are more than chefs. It's a village that keeps
[Guest 2]: it going. And there are so many when people tell me, oh, I was at your restaurant yesterday
[Guest 2]: and Priya took amazing care of me. It means a lot to us. Because in India, it takes a
[Guest 2]: lot to write a positive comment, right? And to name someone that means they really took
[Guest 2]: good care of them. So I think it all it takes is those one moment moments, which brings
[Guest 2]: it all back for us.
[Guest 1]: And I think, for me, like, I've thought about this a lot only because like, I think there's
[Guest 1]: some things you asked me earlier, like, when did you find out that you wanted to be interested?
[Guest 1]: Like, I think I was one of those fortunate ones where I just knew that it was food. There
[Guest 1]: was no like, confusion in my mind. But I think we also live in this age where there's this
[Guest 1]: romanticization of this thought that finding your passion is the right route to take. And
[Guest 1]: there was a cousin of mine who I was talking to a few years ago, and we were just talking
[Guest 1]: about this, like he he works in a completely different industry. And I think I would never
[Guest 1]: have discovered I love this till I went and did it. And call it naivety, call it just
[Guest 1]: like where I went up to uncle and like, give me a job and just jumped into it. And then
[Guest 1]: I found that found out that I loved it. And then it's like what you said about podcasting,
[Guest 1]: right? Like over a period of time, you like and that's what people forget, like try different
[Guest 1]: things experiment. And that passion doesn't need to be your day job either. I think that
[Guest 1]: is the other flip side to this where there is this notion now that your day job needs
[Guest 1]: to equal to your passion. Otherwise, you are wasting your life for some reason. No. One
[Guest 1]: of the things he and I always talk about passion doesn't pay the bills. So you have to find
[Guest 1]: a way to pay the bills at the end of the day and still not paying our bills. That too.
[Guest 1]: But I think the reality is that and we all evolve as human beings as well. Like what
[Guest 1]: I am, I still continue to be passionate about food. But through the restaurants, I have
[Guest 1]: found other things that are equally interesting and I'm passionate about whether it's design,
[Guest 1]: whether it's storytelling and the whole nine yards around it, like it's come because we
[Guest 1]: started doing it through the restaurants. And then you think about it and you realize,
[Guest 1]: I love this too. Like I'm not just one, I'm just not the function of one thing. And that's
[Guest 1]: the bare truth of it.
[Amit Varma]: I think my musing on passion was not so much as about following your passion, which I think
[Amit Varma]: is dangerous advice. You know, the cafes of Warsaw are filled with people who followed
[Amit Varma]: their passion and wasted 20 years of their life. And they're looking at their peers and
[Amit Varma]: nice apartments and cars and foreign holidays. And it's like they're fucked, especially in
[Amit Varma]: a profession like that, where, you know, the top 1% makes anything and the rest are struggling.
[Amit Varma]: So I think following your passion can be overrated. But what I meant it in the sense of finding
[Amit Varma]: something beautiful about what you do, and then being passionate about it, which is not
[Amit Varma]: always possible, I guess, in a lot of professions, because you know, hey, but you know, and that's
[Amit Varma]: harder.
[Guest 2]: Yeah, I think for us and it's evolved, right? Like, first it was restaurants. Now it's Bombay
[Guest 2]: Sweetshop. And Bombay Sweetshop has just been like, started off a very emotional journey.
[Guest 2]: But every day there, we learn new things because e commerce was something he and me have never
[Guest 2]: done before. But what he and me have now is a great understanding of what food products
[Guest 2]: in India can be. And then most importantly, we always say it what sets hunger apart even
[Guest 2]: if we come up with a iPhone of our own is the service we give after that is the customer
[Guest 2]: service. I think that's what links everything we'll ever do. So I think like, you are right,
[Guest 2]: like finding a passion and going after it. When someone comes to me, can I should I open
[Guest 2]: a restaurant? I say no. I was like, come work with us. Learn at our expense. We could use
[Guest 2]: some cheap labor as well. But I do agree with you. There's so many failed restaurants out
[Guest 2]: there. But I feel like our evolution has been really fun for us. It keeps us on our toes.
[Guest 2]: We have fires every day to put out. But it just keeps us going energetically. I always
[Guest 2]: ask myself this question. Honestly, like how long is the energy gonna last? And I've seen
[Guest 2]: my personal like physical energy drop down since like we opened Bombay Canteen. But it's
[Guest 2]: mentally I think we are so energized by all three and the fourth thing that we launched
[Amit Varma]: very soon as well. Yeah, and we'll talk about that also. But before I just want to say that
[Amit Varma]: one of the great tragedies of this year for me is that right after I met Sameer, I went
[Amit Varma]: on a keto diet. So I had the opportunity to have some of the Bombay barks before that
[Amit Varma]: from Bombay Sweet Company and it is the best chocolate desert I have ever had. I've been
[Amit Varma]: gifting it to friends and just raving about it. And it's just a thing of beauty. But alas,
[Amit Varma]: it is also a thing of poison for that is what sugar is. What is one to do? Tell me a little
[Amit Varma]: bit about the restaurant business per se. Like I had done an episode long, long back
[Amit Varma]: when I had these 20 minute episodes with a friend of mine who was an ex restauranteur
[Amit Varma]: called Madhu Menon, who had a restaurant in Bangalore called Shiok. And and he kind of
[Amit Varma]: mirrored what you're saying now, in the sense that, you know, problems beyond the actual
[Amit Varma]: restaurant would take up most of his time. And the classic example he gave was that,
[Amit Varma]: you know, in Karnataka, and this restaurant was in Bangalore, you had one regulation from
[Amit Varma]: the fire safety department that you must have multiple entrances to your restaurant, and
[Amit Varma]: another one from the excise department that you're only allowed one, right? And you can't
[Amit Varma]: possibly keep both of them happy because you know, it's not Schrodinger's restaurant,
[Amit Varma]: ki yeh inspector aa gaya toh ek darwaz aaya nahi toh. And basically, he was like giving
[Amit Varma]: 1000 bribes every month. And it was just a nightmare. And it was just a mess. And when
[Amit Varma]: I talked to friends of mine who've run businesses in India, I'm like, why? Like, why would you
[Amit Varma]: do it? Jitna bhi passion hai, you know, khaane ka passion hai toh khud banao yaar. But business
[Amit Varma]: running a business, it is like, mind numbingly frustrating and difficult. So tell me a little
[Amit Varma]: bit about that. Like, at least in your case, Sameer, I'm guessing going and you knew it
[Amit Varma]: would be tough because you had experience with Sanghi Uncle as it was setting up those
[Amit Varma]: three restaurants. But what was it like? Was it tougher than you anticipated? Is it soul
[Amit Varma]: crushing? As I imagine it would be for someone like me, I would just give up honestly. And
[Guest 1]: then I think like what Yash said earlier, like, unless you don't have a village along
[Guest 1]: for this ride, it is absolutely soul crushing. So to even think of doing it on your own,
[Guest 1]: please don't because it's a very, very lonely journey. I'm glad we had each other plus Chef
[Guest 1]: Floyd and so many more people have joined us on this journey. We're almost 250-300 people
[Guest 1]: now who work together. And I think it can be soul crushing at times as Yash was describing
[Guest 1]: earlier. But there is this joy which is unparalleled. And I'm only saying this because last week
[Guest 1]: we reopened Bombay Canteen. And even though it is now in its seventh year to see it light
[Guest 1]: up again, and to see it like there is this moment when you're building something. And
[Guest 1]: there are these two moments which always like strike me is the first time you do the light
[Guest 1]: testing, because you're seeing everything at the right level. And the magical moment
[Guest 1]: is when music comes into the space. I can't describe that feeling to you. It is like it
[Guest 1]: gives you goosebumps when you see like all the things that you've seen on paper on 3D
[Guest 1]: renders on this on through the dust and the construction to actually clean up and then
[Guest 1]: because you can't switch on the music till everything is spotless and it doesn't. That's
[Guest 1]: just the way the process works, right, so to speak. And then on top of that, you layer
[Guest 1]: on like people in the space and you suddenly see energy and you're fuelled for a while.
[Guest 1]: You're fuelled for a while. So I think it's moments like this, like I think we always
[Guest 1]: tell ourselves and our teams that chances are like 80% of the time you're going to be
[Guest 1]: doing stupid shit. Like that's the reality of it invoice pay GST correct gaya ki nahi,
[Guest 1]: some other random rubbish which will pop up from here or there. But it's that 10 to 20%
[Guest 1]: hopefully which fuels you and keeps you in that zone where you feel it's worth it. Because
[Guest 1]: to expect all of it to be worth it all the time, I think is unsustainable. And it actually
[Guest 2]: is not reality. Yeah, we say to most hires, there's 90% of the work we do is not engaging
[Guest 2]: at all. And it's the 10% that gives us the joy meaning in to going back to a question
[Amit Varma]: running a business in India is annoying. I feel like you've used the mildest word you
[Guest 2]: could think of. Yeah. It can, it annoys me the most like, you know, if I'm on a vacation
[Guest 2]: and Sam calls me and you know, so and so has shown up and is creating a nuisance. And that
[Guest 2]: annoys me the most because then you're like, trying to get three people on the phone and
[Guest 2]: trying to resolve a problem. But because laws have been created to create confusion, and
[Guest 2]: to create opportunity for certain people, if that's the best way to put it, right? That's
[Guest 2]: what annoys you, right? And for me, I think what is soul crushing is the is the sing song
[Guest 2]: on the other side where everyone thinks that, you know, we are heading towards the greatest
[Guest 2]: country in the world is ease of doing business. And for me, I think it's, it does go the other
[Guest 2]: way. So for me, I don't mind, you know, getting my hands dirty and getting things done. But
[Guest 2]: when someone else walks up to me and says, Oh, things are easier now for restaurants
[Guest 2]: to run licensing GST serves so good for you. And it's not honestly, the restaurant industry
[Guest 2]: is the only industry that does not get input credit for GST. And there's no reason why
[Guest 2]: we shouldn't. And so it is those things. Like I don't mind fighting the good fight and just
[Guest 2]: getting on with my business. And honestly, India gives us so much opportunity. Like there
[Guest 2]: are so many things it allows us to do. And part of the bad things is we have to deal
[Guest 2]: with all this. But when some like, enthusiastic bugger comes to me and was like, like that
[Guest 2]: annoys me. And it really annoys me when someone tells me Oh, things are getting so much easier
[Guest 2]: for you guys. You know, things are so streamlined now. I think they're worse than where we were
[Guest 2]: eight years ago.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah, I mean, any achche dina daya despite the odds as it were. So tell me one more thing
[Amit Varma]: like the interesting thing that strikes me about food, both at a personal level of you
[Amit Varma]: know, me going and cooking something and at the sort of bigger level of running a restaurant
[Amit Varma]: is the transience of it. You know, like Varun Grover, he spoke about how he likes to cook
[Amit Varma]: every day and he'll put music and he'll cook and he'll do his thing. And I have a similar
[Amit Varma]: sort of routine like that now. And he talks about how I think the comparison he made was
[Amit Varma]: like with a rangoli that you create something beautiful and but then it's gone. You know,
[Amit Varma]: it's temporary, maybe like a sandcastle or whatever. And that's at the personal level
[Amit Varma]: of cooking a meal. And perhaps you get the satisfaction of feeding someone or eating
[Amit Varma]: it yourself or whatever it is. But also, it strikes me in the restaurant business that
[Amit Varma]: if I'm a creator of another sort, say if I'm a filmmaker, I'm a producer, I made a movie.
[Amit Varma]: The movie is there forever. You know, I bring out books, I write books, they are there forever.
[Amit Varma]: Even these podcast episodes hopefully will be there forever. So, you know, your brother
[Unknown]: can see how you messed it up for years to come. But for the restaurant business, it's
[Amit Varma]: like you changed the menu once, what the previous menu was. Those are the memories of people
[Amit Varma]: and memories are faulty and memories are whatever and we even take them for granted. You know,
[Amit Varma]: like we'll go to a restaurant and we'll have an amazing meal. And then it's like we were
[Amit Varma]: entitled to it, it happened, move on to the next meal, it's kind of gone. So how do you
[Amit Varma]: sort of think about the transience of it where every day in different unseen ways, you're
[Amit Varma]: creating your masterpiece, but it's not there tomorrow in a sense. I mean, I know the processes
[Amit Varma]: and people in the village, it's all there tomorrow. But you know, that dish, that dish.
[Guest 2]: I think Sam says it whenever he wants to give this inspirational briefing is we are as good
[Guest 2]: as the last meal we served someone, right? Even like forget menu change, like we have
[Guest 2]: so many regular guests who know that we are really great place and they keep coming. But
[Guest 2]: the night before, if one thing went wrong, that's the one thing they're going to call
[Guest 2]: us up about the next day, right? To be honest, like the way you explained it, I've never
[Guest 1]: thought of it. Yeah, I was just thinking about the transience is something I have not consciously
[Guest 1]: ever thought about. But it's a beautiful way of looking at it. Which is great. I'm sorry
[Guest 1]: if I messed your minds up. No, not at all. It's great to think of it. But we actually
[Guest 1]: like, I'd forgotten about what Yash just mentioned. But it's so true, like you're as good as the
[Guest 1]: last meal or the last drink you've served someone. That's all that matters. And that
[Guest 1]: in itself is referencing that transience because the good part is like you get to sort of wipe
[Guest 1]: the slate clean every morning and like rebuild because you can, you don't have to edit yourself
[Guest 1]: every day, but like you get to continuously create and I think one of the things the Bombay
[Guest 1]: Canteen did very early on is like, it was built into the structure of the restaurant
[Guest 1]: that we will keep making new things and making mistakes and but also like we were one of
[Guest 1]: the first restaurants in the country to have seasonally changing menus like it's a given
[Guest 1]: all over the world now. But in 2015, we were probably the only restaurant doing it and
[Guest 1]: we were actually told by like seasoned people in the industry, don't try doing that because
[Guest 1]: here people want what they want and they want to come back for the same thing. And I'm like,
[Guest 1]: no, let's change it because something tastes best in that season. So let's celebrate that.
[Guest 1]: That's the whole purpose of like being a restaurant inspired by India that we celebrate the food
[Guest 1]: of the country in every way, shape and form. And that was an important aspect of it. And
[Guest 1]: I think we've always looked at like saying like thinking about like, how do we keep creating
[Guest 1]: and that's what drives us on a daily basis that 10-20% we were referencing earlier like
[Guest 1]: part of it is like that process of creation is what is very much in the center of the
[Guest 1]: 10-20% because without that creation, this is drudgery. Like then you are not like working
[Guest 1]: that mind to do anything new. But at the same time, we spend a hell of a lot of time talking
[Guest 1]: about consistency, because that's the only thing that's going to bring Amit back the
[Guest 1]: next time because he can consistently believe, but hopefully then over a period of time,
[Guest 1]: he also believes that whatever new thing these guys create is also worth trying out, which
[Guest 1]: has taken a little more than a little bit of time.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah, the common thread I'm getting out of that is that earlier you could go to a restaurant
[Amit Varma]: for food and you would get the food and the food is what is holding it together. But today
[Amit Varma]: it's also maybe an experience and maybe just a shared ethic. So I guess what would run
[Amit Varma]: through your restaurants is your ethic, a certain way of doing things. And I want to
[Amit Varma]: ask about that next, because I'll often get people telling me why don't you do one hour
[Amit Varma]: episodes or why don't you have this guest or that guest? And I'm like, No, I'm not chasing
[Amit Varma]: listeners. I am although I'm lucky enough to have enough of them, but I'm not chasing
[Amit Varma]: them. I know how I can expand my audience if I want to, but I don't want to, this is
[Amit Varma]: what I want to do, right? So I'm coming there with that ethic. Similarly, it seems to me
[Amit Varma]: that that approach is one that you guys share in the sense that look, if you wanted to go
[Amit Varma]: mass, you could go mass in a way and get in many more numbers and all of that shit could
[Amit Varma]: happen. But there are some principles and there is some ethic which is dear to you guys.
[Amit Varma]: Like I remember in one of your interviews or something Sameer you mentioned about how
[Amit Varma]: some guests at Bombay canteen said ki yaar you have a tandoor, you have chicken, gimme
[Amit Varma]: chicken tikka and you said nahi nahi denge, right? Which is amazing, which is fantastic.
[Amit Varma]: And exactly what I would you know, want as a as part of the experience that there is
[Amit Varma]: something there, which is core to that and which is not just ki we'll give you whatever
[Amit Varma]: the hell will make you happy. So how did you arrive at that? How did you arrive at that?
[Amit Varma]: Like at one point you mentioned when you met Floyd, Sam, one of the questions he asked
[Amit Varma]: you was why are you here? And this of course, in New York, why are you here? You know, and
[Amit Varma]: at some level, I get the sense from reading about you guys from senior interviews that
[Amit Varma]: at some level, there was a thing of let's go back to India and do our thing. The way
[Amit Varma]: an American chef does America, the way an Italian chef does Italy. Let's go back and
[Amit Varma]: do our thing and something more than, you know, catering to the cliches and making the
[Guest 2]: safe stuff. Tell me how your philosophy was born. So we started hungering with the now
[Guest 2]: I think we are able to elaborate it or better clearly is to say we want to celebrate India,
[Guest 2]: right? Now, in in our smaller worlds, we knew what hospitality is. And during the break,
[Guest 2]: I'm just going to check this one Instagram video I saw yesterday of a guy by the name
[Guest 2]: Will Gudara. And he breaks down the difference between service and hospitality. And he says
[Guest 2]: service is a process, the act of just someone asking for something, you're giving it and
[Guest 2]: hospitality. Making it efficient is service. Is service and hospitality is just doing it
[Guest 2]: with the heart. And making someone feel something. Yeah. Yeah. I think that finding that for
[Guest 2]: us was important. Then also knowing and being honest to ourselves is both of us can't cook,
[Guest 2]: right? We can't. So finding someone who we respected when Chef Floyd came on board, like
[Guest 2]: for me, it was a surprise. Like, why is he joining? Like, you know, obviously, Sam and
[Guest 2]: met him before and the rapport they shared. And he just saw that I think the honesty in
[Guest 2]: us. And obviously, we looked up to him as someone who had radicalized Indian cuisine
[Guest 2]: in the United States, but more like from a mentor perspective. And that philosophy when
[Guest 2]: it came to food was him. Having seen those years, like being being in the United States,
[Guest 2]: seeing those chefs and celebrating farmers celebrating ingredients. He wanted to do that
[Guest 2]: in India. And he made sure that he instilled it with all the younger chefs as well. So
[Guest 2]: we had Chef Thomas, who grew up under him. We have Chef Hussain. We have Chef Kirish.
[Guest 2]: We have Chef Shraddha now at O'Pedro. All these chefs under him learned that philosophy.
[Guest 2]: And they are evolving that philosophy, right? Like what indigenous means to them. So when
[Guest 2]: we have that in the kitchen, that becomes the heart there. We have that as the heart
[Guest 2]: in the front of house. And I think that coming together creates that shared ethic and philosophy.
[Guest 2]: Like celebrating India for me in Bombay Canteen means if I come to your home, and maybe we've
[Guest 2]: just met once before, if I'm a relative, you still make me sit and ask for tea, coffee
[Guest 2]: and get a tray of snacks. It's just in our hearts. And that's all that we are to represent
[Guest 2]: within the restaurants is that bringing that heart out. So celebrating India was very core
[Guest 1]: to what we wanted to do.
[Guest 1]: And to take off from where Yash left right now, I think it was definitely like as two
[Guest 1]: guys trying to start their first business never having done this before. Like it was
[Guest 1]: genuinely like having Chef Floyd in our corner that gave us the confidence to like go ahead
[Guest 1]: with this ethic. Like I think the language with which we now describe the last eight
[Guest 1]: years is only in hindsight. At that time, we were just putting things together to like
[Guest 1]: make it work on a day to day basis. And if we had not had a year and a half worth of
[Guest 1]: conversations with Chef Floyd, for example, that we will not serve chicken tikka, maybe
[Guest 1]: we would have caved, who knows, like if things had not gone the way we'd planned, like the
[Guest 1]: mind plays its tricks on you, like you need to get money through the door. And that happens
[Guest 1]: so often with so many restaurants, it opens with a certain concept, it doesn't go as per
[Guest 1]: plan. And then you start flipping, flipping, flipping, like one of the biggest things other
[Guest 1]: biggest things I learned while in the year, you can't be everything for everyone. You
[Guest 1]: just cannot. I think that is actually the anathema to like actually succeeding, because
[Guest 1]: the moment you try to do that, you no longer stand for anything. And people see through
[Guest 1]: that eventually. So, and little by little, you succeed a little, I think confidence is
[Guest 1]: one of those things. I think it was Phil Knight's book where I read this line where it was like
[Guest 1]: confidence is like money, you need some to make some. And I think having Chef Floyd in
[Guest 1]: our corner was that first little bit that was there. And then over a period of time,
[Guest 1]: we've made some which has allowed us to have a strong ethic and culture around which we
[Amit Varma]: function today.
[Amit Varma]: And to dig a little deeper into what this ethic and culture is like you've spoken about
[Amit Varma]: celebrating where we are from about indigenous elements and all of that. But what does it
[Amit Varma]: really translate to? I mean, you know, celebrating indigenous elements being who we are could
[Amit Varma]: also mean making incredible poha, right, for example, or just making traditional dishes
[Amit Varma]: well or like highway gomantak, which you described is also doing that, in a sense. But, you know,
[Amit Varma]: you guys have kind of gone beyond that in the sense that whenever I eat at your restaurants
[Amit Varma]: and my O Pedro last meal last week was like heavenly. There's a, you know, if I'm eating
[Amit Varma]: something that I haven't had on the menu before, there is that delightful sense of surprise
[Amit Varma]: also, it is not just a little bit of familiarity that may be there, but it is that delightful
[Amit Varma]: sense of surprise. And, you know, like, honestly, it was I got to tell my listeners about this,
[Amit Varma]: it was a weekday night, and the place was packed. And I was sitting facing the window,
[Amit Varma]: I was with four of my friends, and I was sitting facing the window. And it blew my mind that
[Amit Varma]: there are people who are passing this restaurant. And I was like, what the fuck is wrong with
[Amit Varma]: you come in? You know, of course, there was no space inside either. But you know what
[Amit Varma]: I'm saying? It was so surprising and so delightful. And you just wanted more and more. And I even
[Amit Varma]: took a keto break for a day. Because who can resist? So just to kind of stop salivating
[Amit Varma]: and come back to the question, you know, so tell me a little bit more about this ethic,
[Amit Varma]: this philosophy, this approach.
[Guest 2]: So when we said celebrating India, we said very clearly, we want to celebrate India of
[Guest 2]: today. Right? And we want to be aspirational, right? He and me grew up in Bombay, and now
[Guest 2]: it's Mumbai, right? So we always have memories. And like, you might have had the best poha
[Guest 2]: somewhere. We didn't want to touch that poha. We wanted to recreate it and bring it to the
[Guest 2]: poha of today. So that's what Chef Lloyd was great at. But same thing when you walked into
[Guest 2]: Bombay canteen, you came in thinking it's gonna be an Indian restaurant. So you thought
[Guest 2]: of a Moti Mahal. So we've drawn Taj Mahal in a corner, there are going to be these like,
[Guest 2]: lamps on the table. And it was exactly opposite of that, right? Very, I wouldn't call it grungy,
[Guest 2]: but exposed walls, beautiful bar, a great cocktail program, stuff in like t shirts with
[Guest 2]: bro written on it. Eight, seven and a half years ago, that just changed the way people
[Guest 2]: looked at Indian food. I used to say, like, celebrating India at that point could also
[Guest 2]: have been I love traditional Indian food, like that's why I love highway kumantak. But
[Guest 2]: if I were going to, let's say a Moti Mahal or a copper chimney for dinner today, and
[Guest 2]: imagine our reservation at 8pm, we could decide now sitting here what we are going to eat,
[Guest 2]: we don't even need to look at the menu. But we also know at the end of the meal, it would
[Guest 2]: have been great food, but it wouldn't have been a great cocktail experience or a dining
[Guest 2]: experience, but you would have left satisfied, comfort, comfort. We didn't want that we wanted
[Guest 2]: people to come in. And yes, people are going to get angry. But that same surprises what
[Guest 2]: creates joy. So we said this that, and I still say it, I want to create products or brands
[Guest 2]: where either you love us or you hate us. I don't want you to be hurt. Because here is
[Guest 2]: where we play safe, right? To what Sam said, like, we came to India around, like he was
[Guest 2]: in New York, I was in Singapore, and we came nine years ago or something and we were just
[Guest 2]: eating and believe me, we were eating good food. But every restaurant had a burger pasta
[Guest 2]: on its menu, right? With no context to it at that point. And I, a year ago, I was pulling
[Guest 2]: his leg saying, when COVID hit us during delivery, we had burgers and sandwiches on our menu.
[Guest 2]: But we had it because we found out that it was the best food that traveled during that
[Guest 2]: time. We had to change as per the circumstances, we had to evolve. That sense of evolution
[Guest 2]: and saying I'm going to celebrate India of today, I'm going to celebrate the Goa of today,
[Guest 2]: which we do at Opedro, is I think what makes us different. And honestly, it's our team
[Guest 2]: that gives us that confidence. Chef Hussain in the kitchen is a wizard. Like, when he
[Guest 2]: tells us there's a tasting and he pulls out like 10 dishes, we are enthusiastically sitting
[Guest 2]: there waiting for what's coming out. Chef Girish, who runs Bombay Sweetshop, would you
[Guest 2]: have asked me, would I be excited about tasting Mithai 10 years ago? Never. Like, but when
[Guest 2]: these guys tell us there is a tasting lined up in the evening, we are like so excited
[Guest 2]: because when we tasted, we are thinking how are we going to sell this? How are we going
[Guest 2]: to convince people? What is the story we are going to tell? Right. So I think all of us
[Guest 2]: like just feed off each other. Literally. I don't know if that so like the we used to
[Guest 2]: say that recreation or what was that word you used to use that that's what our hunger
[Guest 2]: rings like we recreate something. But we we make sure that like same like the guest told
[Guest 2]: you yesterday, Bombay Canteen got renovated. And she's a slightly older guest. And she
[Guest 2]: said to him, I love how it looks. But I still, it still reminds me of the good memories I've
[Unknown]: had. So like, it's refreshing. It's refreshing. Yeah. So like, even when you might eat, for
[Guest 2]: example, the choris pulao in at O'Pedro. You love it. It's a surprise. But there are elements
[Guest 2]: in it which are comforting. Comforting is also very important to us. Like we don't want
[Guest 2]: you to come to our restaurants only on special occasions for that one Wow, expensive meal.
[Guest 2]: No, not at all. I think we are very approachable in our pricing and the value we drive. We
[Guest 2]: will give you the surprise but it's comforting at the end of the day that room that you're
[Guest 2]: sitting in this energy like you feel like you could walk in wearing slippers or a suit.
[Guest 1]: You still feel at home in that environment. And the whole thought process for us has always
[Guest 1]: been like, how do you strike that balance between surprise and comfort? Because think
[Guest 1]: about it like on different days, you feel different things and you're in the mood for
[Guest 1]: different kinds of food. And you almost want to like, program the menu in a way that there
[Guest 1]: is a little bit of something depending on how you're feeling like you want to be surprised.
[Guest 1]: There's something for you to be surprised. And this is something we've learned over a
[Guest 1]: period of eight years. I don't think this came to us aha on day one. And we've been
[Guest 1]: able to now articulate it as well. Like we like menu engineering is a whole field on
[Guest 1]: its own where like you're looking at the menu from the point of view that how do I make
[Guest 1]: this menu in a way that it tells a story of what the concept of the restaurant is. Yet
[Guest 1]: it feels good whether Amit you walk in with a group of friends or you walk in with your
[Guest 1]: family it has an equal amount for both groups. Because this is what happens in a restaurant
[Guest 1]: otherwise you go down the route of being a multi cuisine restaurant and you try to put
[Guest 1]: pizza, pasta, Chinese, Indian, everything. But even what we try to think of is like,
[Guest 1]: and I think you and I have briefly had a conversation about this before is form versus flavor. And
[Guest 1]: like if you think of it as like a quadrant on those lines, we've realized over a period
[Guest 1]: of time, if you take form of a dish too far or flavor of a dish too far, you still have
[Guest 1]: an original memory of and this is to feed off what Yash was saying about recreation,
[Guest 1]: there is an original inspiration for sure. But when you move too far on both form and
[Guest 1]: flavor, you're left with a new thing that nobody emotionally connects with. Versus in
[Guest 1]: if you play just with form or just with flavor, there is something to hook your mind on to
[Guest 1]: and then hopefully we take you down, down on a journey and tell a story of what that
[Guest 1]: dish was meant to be. And we find that time and time again, that works in a way that it
[Guest 1]: works for us, maybe for someone else, it's a different way of doing it. And our minds
[Guest 1]: now work towards sort of how do you surprise someone on form or flavor, whether it's mithai,
[Guest 1]: whether it's Goan food, whether it's Indian food. And, but there are certain things we've
[Guest 1]: also learned over a period of time, it's about behavior, like we're constantly looking at
[Guest 1]: behavior, I always feel like restaurants are a live laboratory. So we've realized so our
[Guest 1]: menus are usually divided into small plates, large plates, chotas, badas, etc. Small plates
[Guest 1]: is where people love experimenting. So we sort of focus our energies there. But when
[Guest 1]: they end their meal here in India, you want comfort. So don't stop. We've said yeah, provide
[Guest 1]: the best possible flavor. But let's not try doing too much to it where people feel that
[Guest 1]: they didn't end their meal being fulfilled, or like having like that great end to the
[Guest 1]: meal. And then desserts again is something people love experimenting with. So you're
[Guest 1]: back to experimentation state. So it's almost like you have these a canvas to play on. And
[Guest 1]: then you keep moving the needles a little bit here and there. And every menu change,
[Guest 1]: you learn something new. We try like, for example, last year, Hussain figured out a
[Guest 1]: way to get fresh Himalayan trout into Bombay. And we started serving that every day. And
[Guest 1]: it was it was part of it. We introduced a section after we opened after COVID just because
[Guest 1]: we love it. That's it. There is no reason for this to exist on the menu, except that
[Guest 1]: all of us love to eat it. So there was triple shea's one fried rice on it. There was a thupka
[Guest 1]: which is like a ramen on it, like stuff that we would love to like binge on was there on
[Guest 1]: the menu. So again, like finding ways, but that's a way of telling the story of why this
[Guest 1]: is on deserves to be on the menu. And then please come and share our love for it. And
[Guest 1]: so it's a constant process of how do you continuously tell that story of food through the menu through
[Guest 1]: the restaurant through every through the service. And it's that's what's continuously fun.
[Guest 2]: Yeah, for the form was his flavor. I can give you a quick example. So people Yeah, get it.
[Guest 2]: So it's one of our dishes, which is still on the menu. Um, it's called as a gulab nut.
[Guest 2]: Okay, gulab nut is a gulab jamun shape like a donut with old monk for fresh pistachio
[Guest 2]: cream in it, right? Now the inspiration of this dish, Chef Kunali and Chef Floyd wanted
[Guest 2]: to create a gulab jamun with old monk in it. So the inspiration of it came from Baba Ram,
[Guest 2]: which is a French dessert where a brioche is soaked in rum. Now in a Indian restaurant,
[Guest 2]: if you put a dish called Baba Ram, one we won't be able to pronounce it because a you
[Guest 2]: will be like, oh, and it will just seem as a very intimidating dish to order. So when
[Guest 2]: you have to get the name, right, right. So gulab nut because gulab jamun and gulab nut.
[Guest 2]: So it comes like a donut. But the moment you break into it and eat it, you get the same
[Guest 2]: flavor and texture of a gulab jamun. So it's in your mind, the muscle memory is taking
[Guest 2]: you there. And then the hint of old monk kicks in with the nice texture of almond of pistachios,
[Guest 2]: right? So that recreation is there, but the muscle memory is already kicked in. This reminds
[Guest 2]: me of gulab jamun. Wow. Someone's taken my favorite dish and turned it on its head. So
[Guest 2]: then there are the, I love it. You destroyed my childhood favorite dish, which is great,
[Guest 2]: right? Like we want to play with people's emotions. And it should go on a t-shirt. That's
[Guest 2]: our form versus flavor and then the story to tell with it, right? And the story for
[Guest 2]: us is how you write it on the menu. How does the team explain it as well? So form flavor,
[Guest 2]: like now we use it completely for a lot when we are doing products with Bombay Sweet Shop.
[Guest 2]: And it just helps us also explain it to our team members when they are thinking of a dish
[Guest 2]: that use these as your quadrants to think about, because we are celebrating India. So
[Guest 2]: if you put a foreign object on that, they won't have any relevance to it. And they'll
[Guest 2]: think why is this part of this concept?
[Amit Varma]: Also fascinating how, you know, form and flavor are part of the context that helps you relate
[Amit Varma]: with the dish. Like, I remember I had a vegetarian friend of mine had once agreed to try a dish
[Amit Varma]: I was raving about. And this was in Istanbul in the Museum of Modern Art there. And they
[Amit Varma]: have this fantastic restaurant out on the balcony. And I'd ordered some veal. So she
[Amit Varma]: said, Okay, let me try it. And she's vegetarian, right? Never had meat before. So I was wondering,
[Amit Varma]: how is she going to react to it? There's no context, right? What do you do? So she had
[Amit Varma]: a little bit of it. And then she said, feels like paneer, right? Which to me is, you know,
[Amit Varma]: like what? That's not something I would have thought of. But that's where her memory took
[Amit Varma]: her. Yeah, I mean, devoid of any context, you know, what are you going to say about
[Amit Varma]: it? You have no context of texture, you have no context of taste. And it brings me also
[Amit Varma]: to the phrase you guys used earlier, which was the India of today. Now, the thing is,
[Amit Varma]: India, of course, one, we occupy like three centuries at the same time 1928, some of us
[Amit Varma]: in the 21st. And even within that 21st, we occupy, it's just so incredibly diverse, right?
[Amit Varma]: And everywhere for the food that you bring up, like you pointed out, there is a constraint
[Amit Varma]: and that constraint, I'm guessing is a constraint that there has to be some kind of familiarity,
[Amit Varma]: some kind of anchor for the thing, whether it is in form, or whether it is in flavor,
[Amit Varma]: like you said, but there has to be some kind of anchor for it. And you can't just go completely
[Amit Varma]: crazy. And also at the same time, you know, and this is something I've realized in many
[Amit Varma]: other contexts, and I'm just thinking aloud in this context, that when you're creating
[Amit Varma]: something, sometimes you have to have a the humility to realize that other people come
[Amit Varma]: from such different places, that they may not feel the same way you do about something.
[Amit Varma]: And also the confidence in that, that no, this is what I feel, you know, ki yeh karna
[Amit Varma]: hai, yeh hi karna hai, right? So what is that journey like, like when you talk of menu design,
[Amit Varma]: what is that journey like of figuring out that, you know, how important is that story
[Amit Varma]: really, because I imagine it must be much more important than it, you know, it's not,
[Amit Varma]: it's not just a presentation thing or a marketing thing. It's a contextualizing thing also.
[Amit Varma]: So tell me a little bit through your learnings on all these subjects.
[Guest 1]: We got a lesson on this on day one of Bombay Canteen opening, because it was funny, because
[Guest 1]: it was 11th of February 2015. It was, I think, one or two days after Arvind Kejriwal had
[Guest 1]: just come to power in New Delhi. And everyone's eat, if you've grown up in Bombay, like you've
[Guest 1]: gone to Willingdon Club, and you know, the story of the Kejriwal toast there with the
[Guest 1]: egg hidden under the cheese, because Mr. Kejriwal wanted to hide the fact that he was
[Guest 1]: eating eggs in front of other guests. And we had bread leftover from a certain dish,
[Guest 1]: we had eggs, obviously, in the kitchen, and we had chutney from another dish, which was
[Guest 1]: not going on the menu. And we thought as a day special, we will on opening day, just
[Guest 1]: put this as a special Kejriwal toast, we called it that. And honestly, we got reviewed that
[Guest 1]: day. And it got written about the next day. And everyone started asking about it. And
[Guest 1]: the reason why I think it still is never going to leave the menu, is because throughout,
[Guest 1]: if you've grown up in Bombay, you know where it comes from. Otherwise, you think it's funny
[Guest 1]: that something called Kejriwal is on the menu in your mind, because of news, pop culture,
[Guest 1]: whatever goes to Arvind Kejriwal. And therefore, it's funny to see that on a menu. And suddenly
[Guest 1]: like then you are ordering this because you stuck a cord to the story. And we've had instances
[Guest 1]: where a table of 20 has come and ordered 20 Kejriwals, like one for each, nobody wants
[Guest 1]: to share like it goes on, we couldn't make enough. Like it is hands down the most popular
[Guest 1]: dish. And at the basis of it, if you think of it, what is it? It's a really yummy chilli
[Guest 1]: cheese toast. It's comfort all the way. And that's the reality of it. So I think for us,
[Guest 1]: like when it comes to menu design, like this was a happy accident that happened. But over
[Guest 1]: a period of time, I think the first six months was a huge learning curve, where all four
[Guest 1]: of us who were designing the menu were good carnivorous people and every vegetarian dish
[Guest 1]: was an offshoot of a non vegetarian dish and it bombed and how and we realized that this
[Guest 1]: we can't continue doing this and we had to spend more and more and it took us a solid
[Guest 1]: six, eight months to figure out what our thought process would be. How would we create dishes
[Guest 1]: which would be exciting in the vegetarian realm as well and it pushed us it really pushed
[Guest 1]: us to create and it was it's interesting now that some of my favourite dishes currently
[Guest 1]: on the menu are some of the vegetarian ones. There is a handvo toast that we do black garlic
[Guest 1]: handvo toast where the tomatoes are coming from a specific farm and like it there is
[Guest 1]: a rhubarb coming from a specific farm in Ooty and there's a chundo around it and like in
[Guest 1]: its form it looks like a bruschetta but it's great handvo, the garlicky flavour and the
[Guest 1]: tomatoes the acid of the tomatoes with the sweetness of the rhubarb chundo just works
[Guest 1]: and why not like it's got all the elements of it. So it's a constant journey of like
[Guest 1]: trial and error trial and error to get to this stage. Yeah I think it's been also like
[Guest 2]: we've added layers as we've learnt a lot so I think the first layer was always seasonality
[Guest 2]: right then was this veg non-veg thing then was diversity one of the things we learnt
[Guest 2]: in regionality in the again I'll try to articulate is partialism that comes from like partiality
[Guest 2]: from our minds. I'm Maharashtrian so I want to have a mandeli fry on the menu and my mom's
[Guest 2]: fish curry. He's from Lucknow so we had a pathod on the menu that his mom used to make
[Guest 2]: then she used to do the matri then Floyd was from Goa and Bandra so those dishes Thomas
[Guest 2]: was from Kerala so those dishes and then we never realized that you know the menus actually
[Guest 2]: should be completely diverse so like when chef Hussain also took over he's from Chennai
[Guest 2]: so a little bit of from there now when we think of it and we are looking at the menu
[Guest 2]: and new dishes we are putting we always have a look at is there complete diversity on that
[Guest 2]: menu like it has to be north south east west anyone who walks in needs to find some familiarity
[Guest 2]: there it's just not the familiarity of the founders and the chefs so that has added onto
[Guest 2]: it then obviously there is value will people find value that's a very important question
[Guest 2]: for us like the cheese chilli toast you're not going to charge too much for it although
[Guest 2]: it's a huge seller and people are still buying it but making that a very crucial part of
[Guest 2]: all our products that we do we are always going to be we are a premium but it gets you
[Guest 2]: a good value for what you pay for so I think those are the layers we've grown to understand
[Guest 2]: much more articulate better and get it through to our teams that they also think about it
[Guest 1]: in that way and I think to add to that another layer that we've developed over the years
[Guest 1]: is that of technique and how do you create flavor and I think there's a bunch of stuff
[Guest 1]: that the kitchen team does the bar team does to like create infusions and ferments and
[Guest 1]: a whole bunch of other things that we don't actively talk about but it's being used at
[Guest 1]: the back end to like provide a better flavor to the dish that is and I know we spoke about
[Guest 1]: it a little earlier that every dish has these sort of tick marks but also there's a lot
[Guest 1]: of technique constantly being used to see how can we sort of amplify flavors that we
[Guest 1]: are doing whether it's in the cooking technique or in the way it's being presented or all
[Guest 1]: of that and but we're always also very careful of where if you over index on the technique
[Guest 1]: piece when telling the story it almost can veer on pretentious where do you know where
[Guest 1]: this came from from and how many days was this made for you etc. etc. which I don't
[Guest 1]: think necessarily always needs to be part of the story but like at the back end it's
[Amit Varma]: there to accentuate what you're doing anyway yeah a severe shout out these coffee beans
[Guest 2]: oh yeah I always say this yesterday I was saying it was like I'm tired when I go and
[Guest 2]: they tell me oh we aged this coffee being in a donkey stomach and then they shat it
[Guest 2]: out and then we fermented it and then it went it's just like I need a good coffee that's
[Amit Varma]: it yeah I mean part of it is I need a good coffee but part of it is a story kind of makes
[Amit Varma]: a difference yeah the story and the vibe and all of that so let's take a quick commercial
[Amit Varma]: break and on the other side we'll continue this journey
[Amit Varma]: have you always wanted to be a writer but never quite gotten down to it well I'd love
[Amit Varma]: to help you since April 2020 I've taught 20 cohorts of my online course the art of clear
[Amit Varma]: writing an online community has now sprung up of all my past students we have workshops
[Amit Varma]: a newsletter to showcase the work of students and vibrant community interaction in the course
[Amit Varma]: itself through four webinars spread over four weekends I share all I know about the craft
[Amit Varma]: and practice of clear writing there are many exercises much interaction a lovely and lively
[Amit Varma]: community at the end of it the course cost rupees 10,000 plus GST or about 150 dollars
[Amit Varma]: and is a monthly thing so if you're interested head on over to register at indiancut.com
[Amit Varma]: slash clear writing that's indiancut.com slash clear writing being a good writer doesn't
[Amit Varma]: require God-given talent just the willingness to work hard and a clear idea of what you
[Amit Varma]: need to do to refine your skills I can help you
[Amit Varma]: welcome back to the scene in the unseen I'm chatting with Sameer and Yash and so here's
[Amit Varma]: a question that I have which came out of something that he was saying earlier that Yash you were
[Amit Varma]: mentioning that when you train all of these people you know Saturdays you'll have these
[Amit Varma]: sessions you'll call them over and one of the things you said you tell them is that
[Amit Varma]: you can now experiment on your own right because the means of production are open to you you
[Amit Varma]: can make sourdough bread at home and all of that and what strikes me is that there is
[Amit Varma]: an analog to this in the creator economy which I know fairly well and I of course know nothing
[Amit Varma]: about the food industry so I'll sort of talk a bit about the creator economy and ask you
[Amit Varma]: how well it goes through that in the creator economy what you have is that the means of
[Amit Varma]: production are open to all of us we no longer have to go to gatekeepers to publish our work
[Amit Varma]: or to produce our work or whatever so I can sit at home I can do it myself anybody can
[Amit Varma]: write and once you do enough of it you become good and you become good in interesting diverse
[Amit Varma]: ways the content is no longer homogenized because everybody can do it can do their own
[Amit Varma]: thing and they can thus discover niches which the mainstream might not otherwise even have
[Amit Varma]: defined as a niche or known that it existed and the way we consume content has changed
[Amit Varma]: completely so in the 1990s you've got your times of India and your whatever you've got
[Amit Varma]: a handful of TV channels in the 80s you only have Doodh Darshan and that just expands and
[Amit Varma]: everything is fragmented and it's both good and bad I mean the negative aspects of it
[Amit Varma]: is of course increased polarization narrative warfare all of that but generally good because
[Amit Varma]: individuals are empowered and that's the way the whole ecosystem has developed at the creator
[Amit Varma]: and you're empowered and importantly at the creator and you no longer need to scale you
[Amit Varma]: know I can reach a thousand by Kevin Kelly's famous essay a thousand true fans if you get
[Amit Varma]: a thousand true fans are willing to give you a hundred dollars a year you're cool you don't
[Amit Varma]: need to scale and become really big it's not like one person at the top makes all of it
[Amit Varma]: so that's the way the creator economy has panned out now if we look at the ecosystem
[Amit Varma]: of food I won't say restaurant just a ecosystem of food and eating it strikes me that at one
[Amit Varma]: level just because of comparative advantage you would imagine that logically people would
[Amit Varma]: cook less and less or if they would cook they would cook for creative satisfaction and whatever
[Amit Varma]: but that cook less and less because economies of scale would tell you that you focus on
[Amit Varma]: what you're good at and somebody else will get home-cooked food across to you or different
[Amit Varma]: food across to you and it'll be good to eat and all of that so you'd expect people to
[Amit Varma]: order in much more which is of course facilitated by technology Swiggy's Amato etc you'd expect
[Amit Varma]: people to eat out much more where it's not just a special occasion thing and over a period
[Amit Varma]: of time and I don't know what the delivery mechanism would be but over a period of time
[Amit Varma]: you'd expect more niche taste to evolve as more niche creators also evolve in a sense
[Amit Varma]: right like the market which you're catering to which likes your kind of food may not have
[Amit Varma]: existed or known of its own existence 25 years ago but now it's there and I can see this
[Amit Varma]: becoming more and more diverse and I did an episode on Indian food with the great food
[Amit Varma]: writer Vikram Doctor and one of the points Doc made was about his fears of homogenization
[Amit Varma]: and the example he gave was of the Cavendish banana that here's a banana we export to the
[Amit Varma]: world and then somewhere in North America they figure out is great to mass-produce last
[Amit Varma]: well and now it comes back to India and it's destroying all the local and regional diversity
[Amit Varma]: and the Cavendish banana is everywhere and that's like a first wave of capitalism thing
[Amit Varma]: but the second wave that I see happening now is that individuals and get empowered and
[Amit Varma]: a movement can break out in the opposite direction where individuals and small groups can preserve
[Amit Varma]: diversity like I did an episode with Pune single the entrepreneur behind stage brought
[Amit Varma]: in and I had imagined before my episode with him that that's what is happening to languages
[Amit Varma]: and dialects that as we urbanize more and more you know city speak languages town speak
[Amit Varma]: dialects the dialects are going to die out you're going to get homogenized because incentives
[Amit Varma]: are you go to a big city you want to communicate you know you might speak a dialect of Hindi
[Amit Varma]: but you want to fit in so you learn Hindi and you forget your dialect and homogenization
[Amit Varma]: but what is happening what he's demonstrated with stage and stage is an OTT for Bharat
[Amit Varma]: but not Bharat in terms of Hindi Punjabi Bharat in terms of Haryanvi Rajasthani Marwari and
[Amit Varma]: so on they have those languages happening on the thing and sudden and it's flourishing
[Amit Varma]: it's doing really well commercially and industries are coming up around those dialects and you
[Amit Varma]: have a movement in the opposite direction and and I see that as a good thing about the
[Amit Varma]: creator economy that you have a decentralization you have a change in the way people consume
[Amit Varma]: content you have a change in the way people produce content and you move away from you
[Amit Varma]: know certain cliches that become comfort food across restaurants to and you know it's really
[Amit Varma]: a thousand flowers blooming or a thousand herbs looming as it were so you know and I'm
[Amit Varma]: just thinking aloud and and there's possibly no analog or you know one would have to stretch
[Amit Varma]: but how is the whole world of food evolving in that sense like are these broad current
[Amit Varma]: something that you also see happening in some distant way in the food world and over a period
[Amit Varma]: of time it's not that overnight you know I will cook something that my neighbor will
[Amit Varma]: pay to eat but over time you know what are the direction the directional shifts that
[Guest 1]: you see in this whole ecosystem. I think you're definitely seeing a bunch of these trends
[Guest 1]: playing out much slower of course and I think there is a reason to that in my mind at least
[Guest 1]: I think when we started about almost eight years ago it was not even remotely cool to
[Guest 1]: be going out for an Indian meal and I think we were definitely part of that journey we've
[Guest 1]: seen here where a lot of restaurants have now sort of jumped in and I think everyone
[Guest 1]: now that is also this moment where now it's a moment of pride where like you are eating
[Guest 1]: Indian you are enjoying the food you enjoyed at home I remember there was this point when
[Guest 1]: a few years ago when we put Pakhla Bath on the menu and Odias came from all over the
[Guest 1]: city to come have it in the in the city right like it's a moment of pride that food from
[Guest 1]: our state is making it to a restaurant but I think to take a step forward what we while
[Guest 1]: in the creator economy what you're creating can be distributed digitally I think the challenge
[Guest 1]: really is that how do you take the food which is being done and being made at a much more
[Guest 1]: small batch level and how do you distribute it enough to be able to make it viable for
[Guest 1]: someone to put it in because as you rightly pointed out like I think there is a certain
[Guest 1]: decentralization that's definitely happened but we are sitting in a room right now and
[Guest 1]: we are talking about all things food and everything in between and tomorrow it can be with a push
[Guest 1]: of a button it can be out there into the world that is definitely much harder to think through
[Guest 1]: as far as the world of the food goes but I think you definitely saw that in the last
[Guest 1]: couple of years because of the tailwinds that the pandemic bought in this particular regard
[Guest 1]: was everyone's home became their place of work and suddenly like you were looking at
[Guest 1]: options because and we spoke about it so much like you didn't miss movie halls because you
[Guest 1]: had all the OTT platforms to go to but when you when it came to food yeah you cooked on
[Guest 1]: your own but you still food is also a form of entertainment and you looked for more and
[Guest 1]: more interesting options to be bought home I remember for I think there was this one
[Guest 1]: Marathi cook which Yash found during the pandemic and we ordered from her she was cooking from
[Guest 1]: home you sent her a whatsapp and it showed up on WeFast and it was great but the reality
[Guest 1]: is now that life has gotten busier again like I'm actually remembering that almost after
[Guest 1]: a solid year and a half at this point so I think I would love for it to move in that
[Guest 1]: direction but there are definitely challenges in terms of like for it to come to fruition
[Guest 1]: so to speak to be able to see that complete convergence of the creator economy and the
[Guest 2]: food ecosystem so to speak so I have a slightly differing opinion I have said this that the
[Guest 2]: last two years of the pandemic led to democratization of a tech stack right where Hungering is a
[Guest 2]: very small organization but using something like Shopify right we I don't think anyone
[Guest 2]: with a tech background needs you need a tech background to use Shopify but we had never
[Guest 2]: run an e-commerce channel before we were dependent on Swiggy and Zomato and we set up Bombay
[Guest 2]: Sweet Shop and one member of our team took it on and we just ran with it right and we
[Guest 2]: grew our business right now the same way I feel there is someone at home now who's making
[Guest 2]: the best pasta in Bandra and she sells maybe 10 portions a day right and she's happy with
[Guest 2]: that right but I think two years ago she wouldn't have had the right simple technological advancements
[Guest 2]: to help her and that has changed my only problem with India's creator economy is everyone is
[Guest 2]: only looking at the Oyo's, the Baiju's and the big unicorns and the drama around it and
[Guest 2]: the pressure that then every boy or girl who's doing a great Sardo at home is how do I make
[Guest 2]: this that big the expectations are too high on that creator and I tell I tell so many
[Guest 2]: of them who come to us who are like we are still making out of home we are still selling
[Guest 2]: out every day and we want to set up a chain and I was like why is it if it's still two
[Guest 2]: of you if I do the math you're making more money than I am bottom line like but you can
[Guest 2]: have like even with us at Bombay Sweet Shop there is aspirations of taking this brand
[Guest 2]: international, we want a sweet from India to be as recognized as Swiss chocolate it's
[Amit Varma]: something we believe needs to be there, Barks is better than Swiss chocolate it's much better
[Guest 2]: there's no comparison this is ludicrous to compare but anyway sorry carry on so but there
[Guest 2]: shouldn't be that pressure on every creator to be the next big thing big thing because
[Guest 2]: I worry about India's big unicorns when someone takes the curtain away there's like the amount
[Guest 2]: of burn that's happening there no one looks at that but young 21 year olds are looking
[Guest 2]: at valuations right now but they are not looking at the whole for me the creator economy is
[Guest 2]: based on and I feel India had it with artisans like making really good like even with furniture
[Guest 2]: we were so good at our furniture and look at our furniture now right but we are all
[Guest 2]: like blinded by valuations and the pressure that the 21 year old has to feel that his
[Guest 2]: startup needs to be the next OYO I feel like aspirationally if I was starting two years
[Guest 2]: ago I would also want to start a sweet shop which only makes 200 sweets but because now
[Guest 2]: quick commerce I can sell out of those 200 sweets every day right like those mechanisms
[Guest 2]: are there the mechanisms like the same lady she's still I know she's still cooking she's
[Guest 2]: found a smaller kitchen because she didn't want to do it out of her home and she's still
[Guest 2]: selling out and she must be making slightly more money than she did during court but it's
[Guest 2]: a income stream that that family never had and for them it's great so I feel that democratization
[Guest 2]: of tech the this quick commerce is helping so many little this but just that pressure
[Guest 2]: shouldn't be there that that Malvani lady needs to now become the next you know chain
[Guest 2]: chain like she the next Goli Vada Pav or whatever there is so that's what I'm worried about
[Guest 2]: is this franchise like for restaurants it's the franchise model the same thing we Danny
[Guest 2]: Meyer we spoke about when we speak about Danny Meyer and setting the table and hospitality
[Guest 2]: first no one recognizes it but when we say Shake Shack everyone recognizes it so he is
[Guest 2]: the founder of Shake Shack but Shake Shack came into being 20 years after he started
[Guest 2]: his first restaurant or I could get 15 20 years after right he had set a foundation
[Guest 2]: how that brand came off organically and then became what it is so I I honestly love what's
[Guest 2]: happening in the homes right now people have tried a lot like I get really impressed with
[Guest 2]: India's craft alcohol industry I feel it started with people who were making beer in their
[Guest 2]: bathtubs and now I'm making the best some of the best craft beer in the world is coming
[Guest 2]: out of our country so I feel if they are given the right tools through incentives and various
[Guest 2]: things the you can see it flourish you can see it flourish yeah and this is something
[Amit Varma]: I vibe with so much because you know and and people who do my podcasting course for example
[Amit Varma]: I will tell them this also well like they'll be thinking of gaps in the markets how can
[Amit Varma]: we scale I'm like no no don't do that if everyone tries to be Chetan Bhagat you know everyone
[Amit Varma]: will fail or even succeed which is worse but no all respect to Chetan but no seriously
[Amit Varma]: but you know the only thing that kind of makes you unique is you you know out of the 7 billion
[Amit Varma]: people in this world you have only one thing no one else has that is you be authentic be
[Amit Varma]: true to yourself do the kind of work that you like and and you know if you're in the
[Amit Varma]: food business make the kind of stuff that you like and you do not have to scale you
[Amit Varma]: know especially for people of my age I'm in my late 40s you know there's this mental thing
[Amit Varma]: that creators or entrepreneurs or whatever you have to scale you have to get to a certain
[Amit Varma]: huge size like you put it and no the reality today is you don't need to think big yeah
[Guest 1]: it is been romanticized so much in all the stories we hear about us like it's like raising
[Guest 1]: the next round is like the moniker of success yeah someone still wants their money back
[Guest 1]: at the end of it you have to work to give them their money back they're not letting
[Amit Varma]: you off the hook so easily and that's forgotten always and it's often not about a bottom line
[Amit Varma]: alone though of course that drives a lot of stuff but it's also about the value you bring
[Amit Varma]: to people's lives which is intangible right people eat your food there are memories associated
[Amit Varma]: with that which is actually a nice segue to the next sort of theme I want to explore which
[Amit Varma]: is something Sameer you spoke about when you you know last came over for lunch where we
[Amit Varma]: spoke about food and stories and the resonance of food in our lives in terms of you know
[Amit Varma]: what it tells us about our past and about memories and all of that like I was telling
[Amit Varma]: Sameer when he was last here that my dad died last year so we sold his house we were cleaning
[Amit Varma]: it up and and most of the stuff we chose to let go because just no space it's not practical
[Amit Varma]: but one thing I did keep were a whole bunch of recipe books which both my mother and her
[Amit Varma]: mother my maternal maternal grandmother had kept and a lot of these by my maternal grandmother
[Amit Varma]: are recipes in English of Western dishes like souffles and pizzas and all of that and she's
[Amit Varma]: writing in the 50s and 60s mind you in handwriting and they're all neat and you know the first
[Amit Varma]: page of the notebook will have a table of contents which you can tell is being filled
[Amit Varma]: up as you know the pages as the years go by and I've done tons of episodes with various
[Amit Varma]: women also on you know the lives of women in India have been so different from the lives
[Amit Varma]: of men the histories have been so different in terms of being constrained by so many things
[Amit Varma]: being most of the time at home having a completely different vista and food becomes such a big
[Amit Varma]: part of everything and on the one hand it's like fucking drudgery because every day you're
[Amit Varma]: cooking meals for people who will express no appreciation and it's a pain but those
[Amit Varma]: food those foods the cooking that you do then also becomes a part of you know it's it's
[Amit Varma]: part of a heritage it's more than just something functional and whatever so I'd love to hear
[Amit Varma]: sort of your thoughts on this because I know you want you know you spoke earlier of the
[Amit Varma]: India of today but I know that's not all that interests you that you know so tell me a bit
[Guest 1]: more about that journey so I think for us the other sort of epiphany that hit us when
[Guest 1]: Bombay canteen opened is like how people connect to stories I think we've spoken earlier about
[Guest 1]: like even in menu design like yes it's form flavor but like how do you tell the story
[Guest 1]: of the dish is equally important and we were very much rooted in nostalgia in our first
[Guest 1]: year in terms of the way we told stories I think it was something when Bombay canteens
[Guest 1]: original idea actually originally when Yash and I came up with the idea it was called
[Guest 1]: tiffin club and then there was a restaurant called tiffin that opened somewhere in Bombay
[Guest 1]: and we had to quickly veer away from that from that name but I think we ended at a better
[Guest 1]: place because for us the reason tiffin and club made sense at that point because you
[Guest 1]: grew up eating tiffin there was a club somewhere around you wherever you grew up in India it
[Guest 1]: was the sort of like a gymkhana which was the beating sort of heart of that community
[Guest 1]: right like you met there and for us I'm glad it evolved to the city which was Bombay which
[Guest 1]: represented so much to us and canteens which represented the same thought as tiffin where
[Guest 1]: you where the office where the school where the college like everyone's been to a canteen
[Guest 1]: and so began that journey but like when the first year of Bombay canteen was being celebrated
[Guest 1]: we were like how would we celebrate and long before collaborations were a thing in the
[Guest 1]: world of food like we ended up collaborating with all our mothers with the simple thought
[Guest 1]: that when you when it's your birthday you she cooks you your favorite food so all four
[Guest 1]: five of us who run the were running the restaurant we all come from different parts of the country
[Guest 1]: and all our mothers flew in cook two dishes each and it was the called the mother of all
[Guest 1]: menus and honestly like it was such a visceral response to the menu like it was our first
[Guest 1]: to sort of showcase of what Yash was talking about just that diversity in a menu and regionality
[Guest 1]: and nostalgia memories all of it was at play in those 10 dishes and but more importantly
[Guest 1]: it was at play because of who it represented that for me was one and on a more personal
[Guest 1]: level I feel like as Bombay canteen was opening I was also going through a personal experience
[Guest 1]: where my grandmom was diagnosed with Alzheimer's in 2009-2010 and she cooked certain things
[Guest 1]: for us and she made certain things for us and literally very physically we saw that
[Guest 1]: disappear while she was there we saw it disappear so the thought that struck us even back then
[Guest 1]: was like Indian food at the end of the day is undocumented like unlike other cuisines
[Guest 1]: around the world like that is it's hugely undocumented and it's all oral histories or
[Guest 1]: like word of mouth that it passes on and we've been fortunate enough in the last 7-8 years
[Guest 1]: to go into people's homes people have shared with us the only way to learn is to go cook
[Guest 1]: with someone it's not possible to do that and then come full circle to 2020 where the
[Guest 1]: pandemic hits us and our natural places to tell these stories of food suddenly disappeared
[Guest 1]: from under our feet like there was nothing left suddenly we are left with mediums such
[Guest 1]: as Instagram and other social media where we have to do everything now we have to tell
[Guest 1]: stories we have to make us sort of the rosy roti of it and like sell every day on it it
[Guest 1]: became really difficult to sort of put that together and that kind of led to this thought
[Guest 1]: that how do we continue telling stories of where food in India is going and I specifically
[Guest 1]: say food in India not Indian food because I don't think India of today eats only food
[Guest 1]: that is traditional I think for us what's really important is to be inspired from where
[Guest 1]: we came from but also also be thinking of where is it going and in that sort of spirit
[Guest 1]: I think what we're really excited about is the next project that we've been working on
[Guest 1]: for the last year which is called Enthu Cutlet where hopefully you find like unusual stories
[Guest 1]: of food in India which we are able to bring to you like whether it's an opinion whether
[Guest 1]: it's a fresh take whether it's a conversation and it doesn't need to be written by someone
[Guest 1]: who's from the world of food like because as you were saying like food is like central
[Guest 1]: to all our lives at the end of the day and everyone has a memory around it and there
[Guest 1]: could be a take on it which you and I might not be familiar with and hopefully through
[Guest 1]: that process we are able to sort of connect and reconnect with more and more people I
[Guest 1]: think the reason you and I started talking was because of this project and like as you
[Guest 1]: told me your stories of what you've been through I was sharing and here we find ourselves
[Guest 1]: having a longer conversation about it all and I think that in a nutshell is the power
[Guest 1]: of food like it allows you to really really sort of connect with another person and share
[Guest 1]: something with them in a way that it makes you feel something which links back to what
[Guest 1]: we've always done as through Bombay Canteen or Pedro Bombay Sweet Shop hopefully it's
[Guest 1]: food that makes you feel something and hopefully Enthu Cutlet presents stories to you that
[Amit Varma]: make you feel something and what did your mother's cook?
[Guest 2]: My mother cooked prawn curry and it was chicken curry no wait so we made a kothu roti out
[Guest 2]: of the prawn curry that was later that was much later and she had a dessert I feel clearly
[Guest 1]: that prawn curry though I will not forget like it's that hue of orange in it's that
[Guest 1]: flavor is just like how is it made?
[Guest 2]: I can tell you how it's made go for it so it is that the color comes from obviously
[Guest 2]: red chili fresh fresh coconut and then a little bit of tamarind so the mix of those colors
[Guest 2]: that gives you a little bit of onions which gets sauteed at the start and then just prawns
[Guest 2]: and the rest of the ingredients so it's something she makes like she's we had a limited menu
[Guest 2]: at home we were good carnivores but chicken, fish, mutton but trying to remember she's
[Guest 2]: going to be really angry I don't remember the other dish should just come up with something
[Amit Varma]: your brother was right to warn you not to mess it up I mean this is like a family scam
[Guest 1]: yeah yeah what did your mother cook?
[Guest 1]: She made the dahi pakodas which there was specific like which were exploding which were
[Guest 1]: like it was hard to make because there was one she's from Agra so it's a particular kind
[Guest 1]: of pakoda where it's stuffed inside with something and it's hard to sort of pull off because
[Guest 1]: you first fry it then you soak it and then it's put in dahi etc and the other dish was
[Guest 1]: a gobi dish which I think all of us were like a gobi musallam from Lucknow so so she did
[Guest 1]: a version of a musallam but with gobi.
[Amit Varma]: So tell me something brief digression I am kind of learning to cook an amateur cook and
[Amit Varma]: the things that I find most easy and pleasurable to cook are either western dishes or South
[Amit Varma]: East Asian dishes because they're just so freaking easy right you put three four things
[Amit Varma]: and it's simple and it's fast and frugal and it's kind of done the Indian stuff every time
[Amit Varma]: I look at an Indian recipe I'm going mad because it is half a teaspoon of this and have one
[Amit Varma]: teaspoon of that and there are like 40 spices and there are like 80 procedures and I'm like
[Amit Varma]: what you know just keep it simple why is that?
[Guest 2]: I was going to say but that's where the creator economy comes and now there's a maushi on
[Guest 2]: whatsapp who will send you like a vindaloo masala that she's made fresh and which you
[Guest 2]: can keep in your fridge and I do that in Bandra there are the whatsapp groups which so normally
[Guest 2]: like the local butcher will keep most of these masalas in like regular pearl pet plastic
[Guest 2]: jars and it's fantastic like I have just discovered it so it just needs onions a little bit of
[Guest 2]: pork nicely sauteed and you put this and people feel you cooked it from scratch so like I'm
[Guest 2]: I'm not kidding and I'll send you a packet it's unbelievable how easy it is and it will
[Guest 2]: be keto because yeah of course masala is but to your point so we had and scientifically
[Guest 2]: I think dock will be the best place to start but India's idea of is refrigeration like
[Guest 2]: I feel the idea of spices the vinegar and stuff like the souring agents we used to use
[Guest 2]: every state like Goa uses a lot of vinegar we use tamarind here they use kokum the souring
[Guest 2]: agents the grounded spice because refrigeration wasn't huge in India I feel was a way of preserving
[Guest 2]: the curry that you made I would be quite confident on that but obviously doc would be the right
[Amit Varma]: person to answer on that yeah I mean that's a great point I mean one of the things I realized
[Amit Varma]: by doc is that the food landscape changes so fast that things you think of as Indian
[Amit Varma]: today weren't Indian like just 20 years ago right it just changes so incredibly fast and
[Amit Varma]: how have your taste changed like do you still like your mom's food as much or but which
[Guest 1]: I'm sure everyone does no but there's certain things which we almost like look down upon
[Guest 1]: growing up where which I crave now so like there is a particular with the which we would
[Guest 1]: like cringe coming back from school and eating and I know she'll love it if when she hears
[Guest 1]: this that like that's the one meal I look forward to with that aloo ki sabzi and bhindi
[Guest 1]: right like it's just the combination is just it transports you somewhere I don't think
[Guest 1]: I'll ever make the move to Lockie and tinder but I think that will on the chat are thinking
[Guest 1]: you're on tinder yes sure good job I think the Lockie would accept the context so I think
[Guest 1]: I still love the food I get at home Yash was there last week and my mom thought she was
[Guest 1]: feeding me so like she like a meal in my house is never less than like four dishes at a particular
[Guest 2]: time so these guys were overfed and how like to his question I feel like let's like home
[Guest 2]: food like I I don't I feel I have stuck to the same I never liked water now sir and Warren
[Guest 2]: I still like I remember if I go back home my parents are still in Pune and if it's Shravan
[Guest 2]: I still remember if I drive from Bombay to Pune and that is like what I know so and I'm
[Amit Varma]: like I didn't drive here for this I came here for the prawn what do they think of the food
[Guest 2]: that you guys serve up like my parents my mom obviously like you know like she's not
[Guest 2]: very opinionated my dad is so he'll give it to me straight no matter how uneducated that
[Amit Varma]: opinion can be but that's the third member of the family yeah yeah I was waiting for
[Guest 2]: that moment check and check opinions are a lot but they love it like they were at Bombay
[Guest 2]: canteen this weekend there's really proud of both of us and what we've achieved obviously
[Guest 2]: and they've seen us through the ups and downs so they love the food but to your point I
[Guest 2]: just wanted to go back like if how our tastes have evolved I think it's also because we're
[Guest 2]: part of the industry we travel a lot and we eat a lot on those travels and the travels
[Guest 2]: are two kinds one is work travel where then we are eating like three meals a day and one
[Guest 2]: could be like a really fine dining place where it's a fancy meal and we are not eating it
[Guest 2]: to replicate it but you're eating it to get inspired right you're eating it because there
[Guest 2]: might be a texture in there or like a technique that was used or the way it was presented
[Guest 2]: or the service and you just like wow they've simplified this like we need to do something
[Guest 2]: similar so I feel in in that way like four five years ago I was I was mesmerized by these
[Guest 2]: fancy meals now I'm not so much I feel like it gets overdone to a certain point I just
[Guest 2]: want to go have a good meal but we were at a restaurant in Brooklyn called Bonnie's and
[Guest 2]: they served this cold chicken and it's basically a Hainanese chicken but they serve it cold
[Guest 2]: and it's basically chicken leg as so simply done and brimming with flavor and it just
[Guest 2]: blew our mind like it was nothing like what we've ever tasted before and it's a like it's
[Guest 2]: a take on American Chinese food it's a nice fun casual restaurant what blew us away was
[Guest 2]: the server that day and he also realized we are people from the industry because we ended
[Guest 2]: up ordering the whole menu and he enjoyed like you could feel the happiness in his eyes
[Guest 2]: of us just like devouring the food so for me I think my like because I've been a bartender
[Guest 2]: before also it used to be about whichever city you go to need to check out X amount
[Guest 2]: of cocktail bars but now you're like been there done that there's only X amount of experimentation
[Guest 2]: that's going to go on but you're finding those places which really like inspire you I feel
[Guest 2]: my I've I think my tastes have matured obviously like 10 years ago I think I didn't have any
[Guest 2]: of this at all I still don't have a wine palette at all it's I if I drink a good wine I'll
[Guest 2]: say it's it's great but I'm not like hints of leather and masala chai but that's something
[Guest 2]: I know I can work on so like the great thing about us like I was speaking to someone same
[Guest 2]: like this going back to this creator economy another new thing we want to start planning
[Guest 2]: a new project but we want to have a good coffee program to it and I was very honest to the
[Guest 2]: person I was speaking to saying hungering has never done great coffee but it's never
[Guest 2]: been because it's always been a 1% somewhere and at this place also it's not going to have
[Guest 2]: a coffee program but I need to have a great coffee so find me that guy who's now roaming
[Guest 2]: all over India figuring out good estates and who will set it up and keep coming and training
[Guest 2]: me also because I need to be trained before it happens so within our I feel like there
[Guest 2]: are so many things for me personally like I always we say like wouldn't it be great
[Guest 2]: to go to a whiskey class in in Scotland for three months right so I feel that as one of
[Guest 2]: the things that restaurant owners in India get called is promoters and I hate that word
[Guest 2]: when when you know it comes out Yash and Sameera are the promoters of Bombay canteen and I
[Guest 2]: try using the word founders a lot because we are involved in the food the drink the
[Guest 2]: service not physically as much as we used to but a lot in the ideation and we want to
[Guest 2]: be involved and for us to be involved we need to keep evolving our palette or you know taste
[Guest 1]: to a certain level and I think it goes back to like doing things right like I think the
[Guest 1]: tastes have obviously evolved but I think it's going back to the storytelling aspect
[Guest 1]: of it like this last year has been such an interesting journey where we've been working
[Guest 1]: with again a little village to bring this the N2 Cutlet project to life where we've
[Guest 1]: had a chance to meet so many people who are brimming with ideas whether it's here in India
[Guest 1]: whether it's abroad who are passionate about Indian food and are sort of dying to sell
[Guest 1]: stories about where it's going and for us now this is a period of like absolute like
[Guest 1]: it's a blank slate because there is there are no rules to in our mind like we have no
[Guest 1]: idea how to run a media company a content company or any of those so the question is
[Guest 1]: how can we continuously be curious experiment iterate and it really brings me back to the
[Guest 1]: original like your first year of Bombay Canteen where all we knew is we wanted to like open
[Guest 1]: and but once you open like it's that's when the true magic happens because you see other
[Guest 1]: people come in and it truly becomes like a dialogue and not a monologue like right now
[Guest 1]: it's a monologue amongst us and that dialogue of like people giving us ideas coming contributing
[Guest 1]: is what we're looking forward to where to Yash's point like travel became such a huge
[Guest 1]: part of our method if I can call it that because where else do you go as like entrepreneurs
[Guest 1]: founders to go learn you have to go just you have to go see things feel things like look
[Guest 1]: at things like the other thing that I remember from this last trip that we took we were at
[Guest 1]: a fine dining restaurant in New York City and the food I will say was nothing not something
[Guest 1]: I will remember but what I took away from it was they bought out this beautiful leather
[Guest 1]: bag and they let you choose your own chopsticks it was just the act of like just opening this
[Guest 1]: bag and like beautiful like inlay work chopsticks and this excitement amongst the four of us
[Guest 1]: that I want this one no no you took the one you I wanted and it brought out the kid in
[Guest 2]: you and that's the beauty of the eye for detail of that person taking care of us was my girlfriend's
[Guest 2]: left-handed so he quietly at some point moved the chopstick hold on to her left well you
[Guest 2]: know simple things simple things that you know you have like and where it transcends
[Guest 1]: from just being a meal to like an experience as we keep talking about right like I think
[Guest 1]: the word experience gets thrown around so much but like the question is what today now
[Guest 1]: you know in a world where all of us are privileged enough to like have these experiences what
[Guest 1]: will excite us next is the question we are asking so even with whether it's the restaurants
[Guest 1]: whether it's Bombay Sweet Shoppe whether it's N2 Cutlet the question we're asking is like
[Guest 1]: what is it that will be exciting to someone will it be we at lunch today we're talking
[Guest 1]: about how you did this trip to Mysore and like ate within a 10 square kilometer radius
[Guest 1]: and you were blown away by the diversity of food within 10 kilometers yes that is truly
[Guest 1]: exciting like I can you imagine like if that list existed out there in the world and like
[Guest 1]: allowed for people from Bangalore or Mysore to quickly go and like experience that versus
[Guest 1]: that to me would be exciting because genuinely like in today's day and age it's so hard to
[Guest 1]: like sift through the clutter to actually get to things which you trust things which
[Guest 1]: you feel will be good like we are all busy in our day-to-day lives you want to go and
[Guest 1]: like quickly have that one amazing thing so why not why can't this be one of those experiences
[Guest 1]: and hopefully and conversations like this hopefully like spark other thoughts and and
[Guest 1]: then you're on it on to something hopefully which is like a journey which is amazing yeah
[Amit Varma]: and one of the sort of the important needs of our times where we are surrounded by an
[Amit Varma]: abundance of sensation and abundance of content is also filters so just that thing that okay
[Amit Varma]: I am in this city where should I eat and what should I eat and to have a sense of that you
[Amit Varma]: know not just like a trip advisor top five rated restaurants but to have a sense of what
[Amit Varma]: would I like and where do I get that experience we'll talk a lot more about into cutlet but
[Amit Varma]: first I have some broader questions and one of them is about what I see as an interesting
[Amit Varma]: dichotomy that perhaps doesn't exist in other areas like you guys have done my writing course
[Amit Varma]: so one of the things I talk about there is that style must always be a slave to substance
[Amit Varma]: right you don't want style to overwhelm the substance and yes you pointed out a moment
[Amit Varma]: ago that you know you're not into flashy food anymore you're not into all the drama in the
[Amit Varma]: theater ultimately now you just the taste the substance of it matters so that's one
[Amit Varma]: way of looking at it but where food is different from everything else is that you're a person's
[Amit Varma]: experience of the food they are eating is also shaped by the theater is also shaped
[Amit Varma]: by the perceptions right the fact that you're choosing your chopstick in that elaborate
[Amit Varma]: act from a leather bag does affect your experience at some level you are definitely going to
[Amit Varma]: find the food a little more elevated yeah elevated as opposed to if that experience
[Amit Varma]: hadn't happened so unlike in anything else the you know these extra trappings are also
[Amit Varma]: kind of important so how does one draw this balance to you know to figure out that what
[Amit Varma]: element of the theater or the gimmicks or whatever are necessary to the food being elevated
[Guest 2]: and what our superfluous to it great question and the same the challenge with all of this
[Guest 2]: is when people think that everything around the food is what's making the experience right
[Guest 2]: and India's gone through this painful and it's going through this painful gimmicky phase
[Guest 2]: where the smoke and mirrors of things we're hopefully peeking out of it at this point
[Guest 2]: as in hope is the smoke and mirrors is what people think will drive people back right
[Guest 2]: restaurants are being built on trends right Instagram images Instagram images Pinterest
[Guest 2]: boards are what define a restaurant right now well whereas you create we've been lucky
[Guest 2]: our restaurants have stood the test of time let's be honest but we have put in that effort
[Guest 2]: that there is a philosophy first there's an experience around it and the philosophy with
[Guest 2]: the experience keeps evolving right we didn't set out to say that a modern Indian got rent
[Guest 2]: on a let's jump on it make your own trend right like you said like you're a one in seven
[Guest 2]: billion people show who you are and the reason why I feel like the superfluous or like what
[Guest 2]: you described is people have forgotten that yes the act of selecting the chopsticks was
[Guest 2]: amazing but I use that chopsticks to have the best bowl of ramen if that doesn't exist
[Guest 2]: then none of this makes sense right and it's you know what I miss in India is an educated
[Guest 2]: opinionated review of the work we do in terms of like if I were in New York a review happens
[Guest 2]: after three between three to six months why because and they come at least thrice certain
[Guest 2]: publications yeah it's because they want the restaurants to settle right a restaurant at
[Guest 2]: the end of the day is like kind of like a factory like everything needs to fall like
[Guest 2]: a domino effect and it takes time right you have to be fair to the restaurant I always
[Guest 2]: tell people we have been so lucky that the whole ecosystem supported us we've had bad
[Guest 2]: reviews as well which is fine give us reviews based on the product the experience and that's
[Guest 2]: what it should be and as an entrepreneur you have to take it in your stride in India the
[Guest 2]: that power went directly to the Zomato reviewer right which is fine it's also a measurable
[Guest 2]: attribute for a restaurant and we I've never replied to Zomato reviews only because I don't
[Guest 2]: think it's an informed review right but if 10 people on Zomato tell me that service is
[Guest 2]: bad I need to look at it right so right now restaurants are being dictated by if the reel
[Guest 2]: of it looked good if the Instagram lighting worked but that's not going to last long it's
[Guest 2]: going to last six months and you're going to fade away so a good warm bowl of food comforting
[Guest 2]: food if you start there build all these little experiences around it and make it come together
[Guest 2]: I think that's what makes a restaurant or any food place for me at least yeah and I
[Guest 1]: think the question you asked is a great one because like what is the filter you use to
[Guest 1]: say that this is me and this is not me right like you can again going back to that original
[Guest 1]: thought we discussed some time ago you can't be everything for everyone and I think it's
[Guest 1]: something we'd maybe have unconsciously always felt like if this is making sense in the so
[Guest 1]: one of the first experiences we created at Bombay canteen I still remember was and it
[Guest 1]: just came right we were busy looking for colorful bottles to put on the table and we were in
[Guest 1]: Muhammad Ali Road in our bottle suppliers this thing and he was showing us colorful
[Guest 1]: bottles because we felt the design needed and then suddenly like someone in the stove
[Guest 1]: pulled out an old Ruwafza bottle and it struck a memory that water bottles always used to
[Guest 1]: be old reuse bottles in home our core our storytelling was nostalgic in nature and Ruwafza
[Guest 1]: bottles were what we chose they didn't have any color but and I kid you not in the first
[Guest 1]: six months a number of people who tried to steal those bottles and like we've stopped
[Amit Varma]: people at the door can you please keep are you serious yeah I feel those bottles yeah
[Guest 1]: how do you steal bottles as in you you'll be shocked at how people think they can and
[Guest 1]: but to get caught anyway they would literally put it under their under their jacket and
[Guest 1]: try to walk out and it's funny right but again like is it gimmicky maybe but it fit into
[Guest 1]: the story we were trying to tell at that time and I think that may be the filter like we
[Guest 1]: sort of try and apply because there is things that make sense like I remember this molecular
[Guest 1]: gastronomy has been a thing and when we were opening Bombay canteen it was really a thing
[Guest 1]: like anything modern related to Indian food at that time had to have liquid nitrogen thrown
[Guest 1]: on it otherwise it was not modern it was a blockchain of the food world oh yes couldn't
[Guest 1]: have said it better yeah and I remember going to a restaurant where which was an obvious
[Guest 1]: riff of Heston Blumenthal's dish at the Fat Duck I'd never been to Fat Duck at that point
[Guest 1]: but like he just tasted bad because like it's basically this one dish where there's sand
[Guest 1]: and above that there's a glass and you place few dishes and then I had the opportunity
[Guest 1]: to go to Fat Duck a few couple of years after I'd had that and you realize what they're
[Guest 1]: doing at the Fat Duck is telling the story of Heston's childhood of going through an
[Guest 1]: English countryside and stopping in the beach at wherever in south of England and this was
[Guest 1]: his memory being told and you're wearing these headphones and you're listening to the waves
[Guest 1]: crash and then it all suddenly makes sense but suddenly because you put a piece of like
[Guest 1]: tandoori prawn on a on sand and you're serving it and because it looked good on Instagram
[Guest 1]: it is never going to work ever and that's the that's the difference between like what
[Guest 1]: Yash was talking about like hopefully we like move beyond like at the end of the day it
[Guest 1]: starts and ends with the food it has to be that and then you layer above that but if
[Guest 1]: you don't have the basics right it's never going to work.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah and I guess a test for this is the same test as in writing like what I talk about
[Amit Varma]: in writing is like sure you want to make it vivid you'll try various things but the time
[Amit Varma]: you realize you failed is when the reader notices a piece of prose for itself their
[Amit Varma]: attention is drawn to the reader to the writer where they'll say oh you know Yash is so witty
[Amit Varma]: I must follow him on Instagram instead of actually following the narrative but if it
[Amit Varma]: fits into the narrative like the reverse a bottle does you know then then it's great
[Amit Varma]: and that sort of makes a lot of sense to me I'm also interested in bars right now I am
[Amit Varma]: not much of a drinker my notion of drinks is that it should be a pretty straightforward
[Amit Varma]: process it you know this much of the alcohol this much of the mixer this much of the whatever
[Amit Varma]: you mix it ultimately every good cocktail bar will basically be competent right but
[Amit Varma]: you opened Antidote in Singapore which won quote-unquote best bar in Singapore in the
[Amit Varma]: year 2014 so you know tell me what makes a good bar what is in your philosophy as a bartender
[Amit Varma]: as a cocktail mixer you know how do you sort of elevate it above and I am the most lay
[Amit Varma]: person lay person you could speak to on this because I literally you know have no idea
[Guest 2]: so so I feel like even like the my Antidote journey was very very small but since then
[Guest 2]: like my even before and after the journey of learning good cocktail making lessons or
[Guest 2]: even like bringing it in into Bombay canteen where we were also on the Asia's top hundred
[Guest 2]: list is there are simple things that you need to do right and which we and we in India were
[Guest 2]: getting wrong like the kind of ice you use even the simplest equipment that you use your
[Guest 2]: mixing techniques your stirring techniques a lot of that earlier was more on the kind
[Guest 2]: of glassware you are using and how fancy that can be but that's a later thing that brings
[Guest 2]: in the experience as we spoke about bartending is very similar to even cooking but the benefit
[Guest 2]: chefs have is they have 20 minutes to pull out a dish and with a drink you have to have
[Guest 2]: it in five minutes no one waits 20 minutes for a drink but the same level of technique
[Guest 2]: goes into it and I feel like right now Indian bars are some of them are on level with international
[Guest 2]: bars is because earlier and it's going to be a slightly long answer earlier Indian chefs
[Guest 2]: never really traveled now chefs have all traveled over the world come back and standards in
[Guest 2]: India have improved same is happening in the bar industry a lot of great bartenders work
[Guest 2]: out of India and and international guys are coming coming in as well a lot of bar pop-ups
[Guest 2]: happen so the measuring like just so important because at the end of the day it's a sweet
[Guest 2]: sour balance right so sweetener normally is your sugar syrup and your acidity either comes
[Guest 2]: from a citrus or typically that's lime or lemon juice right those are the basics of
[Guest 2]: any cocktail with balance then you layer it up with a sense of you add a little bit of
[Guest 2]: bitters there's a sense of you add a little bit of liquors into it which gives that taste
[Guest 2]: to it there are those in India we love bartenders who like flair and like don't use any kind
[Guest 2]: of measures in world over that's gone away where you use a measure to like 5ml 10ml 12ml
[Guest 2]: that level because it does make a huge difference it's a recipe chilling your cocktail to the
[Guest 2]: right temperature chilling your glassware to the right temperature and then shaking
[Guest 2]: or stirring it as required they're very simple techniques I also feel India needs to just
[Guest 2]: wipe its slate clean and say we'll just do classic cocktails and we'll do it really well
[Guest 2]: but we directly went to the spherified masala chai martinis and I feel that's what threw
[Amit Varma]: people off there's the first time hearing of it so I think it's a figment of Yash's
[Guest 1]: imagination but no but just to add to what Yash is saying again like it's funny how as
[Guest 1]: we are almost this has been an interesting reflection on the last seven years and I don't
[Guest 1]: think we've spoken about so many and memories are coming back I feel the first year of Bombay
[Guest 1]: Canteen opening was again like such a learning curve in terms of the drinks program because
[Guest 1]: we had we were fortunate enough to meet this one gentleman his name is Dimitri he lives
[Guest 1]: here in Bombay and he's an amazing bartender has worked with liquor companies across the
[Guest 1]: world and he helped set up the first cocktail menu at Bombay Canteen and as we were setting
[Guest 1]: up I'd come back from New York Yash had come back from Singapore and we had fallen in love
[Guest 1]: with the Negronis of the world the Manhattans of the world like the classic cocktail the
[Guest 1]: alcohol forward martinis etc but funnily enough we forgot to take into context the context
[Guest 1]: of India at that point think about it in 2015 we were still in the Mojito Long Island Ice
[Guest 1]: Tea heyday fruity drinks were the call of the hour we were just seeing the molecular
[Guest 1]: stuff starting to come in which was still sugary sweet and here we were presenting these
[Guest 1]: sort of drinks which the palette didn't exist so to speak for it and I remember he and I
[Guest 1]: went to the US for a trip and we ended up in San Francisco at this bar called Chick
[Guest 1]: Dog since then they have come down and worked with us here a couple of years back and what
[Guest 1]: blew us away was again they had a menu which was telling fun stories it had nothing to
[Guest 1]: do with the cocktails their menu was like a stolen CIA dossier and it just had fun with
[Guest 1]: that like it was nothing to do with cocktails or anything it was making you have fun while
[Guest 1]: you were reading a menu and therefore you ordered a cocktail and we came back with that
[Guest 1]: inspiration and then we took it to our partners at Please See where Pritha like came up with
[Guest 1]: the thought that what if we tell stories of Bombay through the cocktail menu and our first
[Guest 1]: cocktail menu which we did as a result was a pop-up storybook of the Art Deco buildings
[Guest 1]: of Bombay and literally we still have a few copies where you as you unfold it you see
[Guest 1]: all these heritage buildings which we created this beautiful map where you could walk around
[Guest 1]: to these buildings and explore the Art Deco district in South Bombay and what was interesting
[Guest 1]: was people were like I've been to that building I want that cocktail and suddenly you've transported
[Guest 1]: them into rather than thinking about the alcohol etc and what simultaneously happened to what
[Guest 1]: Yash was referring to earlier was like the craft liquor industry was coming in where
[Guest 1]: the quality of overall the input like the raw materials being used was going up which
[Guest 1]: were more affordable like it or not alcohol is taxed at what it is in India so the inputs
[Guest 1]: are really really sort of high cost and I think it was a question in the last four years
[Guest 1]: four five years it's been all boats rise with the tide where many things in the ecosystem
[Guest 1]: have happened for it to reach the level it has including bartenders going out and being
[Guest 1]: more exposed to world-class technique all of it has happened to slowly layer it on and
[Guest 1]: become what it is today and I think it's a very exciting time to be in the sort of cocktail
[Guest 1]: bar space in Bombay in India right now because of the amazing work being done by so many
[Guest 2]: people like I'll just give a quick thing like and it's also we've I feel Covid was a difficult
[Guest 2]: time for us but there were silver linings on the way we looked at things so to his point
[Guest 2]: like all boats rise with the tide we've been lucky like India's the craft gin revolution
[Guest 2]: has helped bartenders tremendously like gins like stranger and sons short story gin is
[Guest 2]: something that you need for like all cocktails I would say like a great martini but these
[Guest 2]: companies have also let bartenders travel internationally through them and telling the
[Guest 2]: story of Indian gin abroad we've had a number four bar in Asia now in India which is the
[Guest 2]: Tashoro which is run by Arijit and Pankaj and since January we said that we want to
[Guest 2]: work on an online mentorship program with them through zoom for our teams at hunger
[Guest 2]: inc because we know that we can't have people of their expertise on our payroll all the
[Guest 2]: time and they would not want to be restricted by that but I also know my team needs mentorship
[Guest 2]: and needs it from the best in class so now everyone's so used to using zoom why not they
[Guest 2]: are based out of Goa start using it and it's such an inspiring thing for the team to be
[Guest 2]: even spend one hour a week just talking to them asking them okay I tried making this
[Guest 2]: cocktail the balance was off can you help me so even things like that have like helped
[Guest 2]: and I think the industry is going to just get better from there so you guys mentioned
[Amit Varma]: palates the challenge being that you know you start something new but people's palates
[Amit Varma]: are palates aren't evolved there and so on and earlier you spoke about how a lot of Zomato
[Amit Varma]: reviews of your restaurant will just be uninformed right and you know so I just bought this Korean
[Amit Varma]: sauce from urban platter called gochugaru Korean spice rather called gochugaru and when
[Amit Varma]: I was reading the reviews of it on the reviews page it was immediately obvious that all the
[Amit Varma]: negative reviews are for people who don't get what it is they are expecting it to be
[Amit Varma]: like an Indian spice and they are saying garlic and it's like like come on you know but that
[Amit Varma]: context isn't there yeah and hopefully you would imagine that over a period of time their
[Amit Varma]: palates also get trained like when we were at lunch we were you know I was telling you
[Amit Varma]: about this restaurant I used to go to and yes you mentioned you used to go to also in
[Amit Varma]: the 90s we won't mention it but Bombay sizzler joint we won't take the name and I used to
[Amit Varma]: love it back then but I went recently and it was shit it was like shocking it's like
[Amit Varma]: you know and it's probably exactly the same food and what's happened is our palate has
[Amit Varma]: developed right so when you get into that situation that you've traveled the world you're
[Amit Varma]: coming with a certain sensibility but that sensibility isn't shared by people here for
[Amit Varma]: no fault of their own it's just that they've made a different journey to a particular point
[Amit Varma]: how does one approach that do you say that let us find a palatable meeting point and
[Amit Varma]: then gradually bring them up or do you say no let us do what we are doing because we
[Amit Varma]: are expanding their universe of tastes and experiences that way and they'll eventually
[Amit Varma]: come here so how does one think about it and in your journey so far you know through Bombay
[Amit Varma]: canteen and O.Pedro and all of that have you found that there has been that a change in
[Amit Varma]: palates or a change in taste where you know less people will have unfair expectations
[Guest 2]: of what your work brings out so I'll give you like couple of very dish related examples
[Guest 2]: because I think it helps year one of Bombay canteen we never truly had a ceviche on the
[Guest 2]: menu right and ceviche is just for everyone it's it's a dish which uses raw fish in it
[Amit Varma]: but it's cured fish with any acid and by the way and your O.Pedro ceviche last week was
[Guest 2]: like mind-blowing yeah exactly right I wouldn't have expected that reaction six years ago
[Guest 2]: honestly and we've seen the it now O.Pedro has three ceviches on the menu also because
[Guest 2]: people one understand the idea behind it is I think the one you've had is the the red
[Guest 2]: snapper ceviche which comes with the coconut milk on the side is the sense of balance there
[Guest 2]: is but the original idea of that for Chef Hussain came through house fish eaten in Goa
[Guest 2]: right and there's always acidity that acidity can be kokum or tamarind there's can there's
[Guest 2]: always crispiness because the semolina on top and that's why we do a little fritters
[Guest 2]: on top that story someone comes and tells you when you're eating it so it relates but
[Guest 2]: you need to pick the right guest to suggest it to right and that's the server's expertise
[Guest 2]: and it's taken us time for them also to get there so there have been times when we've
[Guest 2]: seen dishes there's a beef tongue a buffalo tongue prosciutto on the menu at real tongue
[Guest 1]: yeah real tongue that's beautiful yeah with those up crispy potatoes on it right we debated
[Amit Varma]: so much when that was on your god you did thank you personally yeah that was on year
[Guest 2]: one of O.Pedro's opening menu takes a lot of effort to bring that dish to life because
[Guest 2]: we make the tongue prosciutto ourselves and it's a lot of curing that goes it's a very
[Guest 2]: like long process and but inspired by the way from a tongue sandwich which you get on
[Guest 1]: the streets of Panjim right like so yeah that's the original inspiration like it's not again
[Guest 1]: going back to form versus flavor this was same flavors being bought in a different form
[Guest 2]: yeah so there's like a pintos bar in Panjim where all you get is beer and tongue sandwiches
[Guest 2]: wow so that's where it had come from and in the first two months like we were first two
[Guest 2]: months you get the food enthusiasts who come in who love that dish right and then you have
[Guest 2]: the crowd on which your restaurant is going to sustain over time we saw that dish just
[Guest 2]: die out because people were just not ready for it like at that point we've just got back
[Guest 2]: O.Pedro finishes five years in October yeah and it's doing phenomenally well it's because
[Guest 2]: I genuinely feel India's this transition into food curiosity is is faster than it was before
[Guest 2]: I also feeling more people want that same quality I think also it's Netflix chef's table
[Guest 2]: masterchef it's content being shown it's the likes of like even like Saranjh Goyla Ranveer
[Guest 2]: Brar all these guys traveling India talking about it and YouTube algorithms make all the
[Guest 2]: difference you watch one video about cooking something exotic you will get recommended
[Guest 2]: five others exactly so people are getting much more curious so it's I forgot the original
[Guest 2]: thought I had but the ceviche for example that's what I was saying like it's proved
[Guest 2]: to us that we do have mushroom ceviche now at O.Pedro if you have asked me eight years
[Guest 1]: ago can we have a I would have felt hell no and it's actually if you look at it a decade
[Guest 1]: ago to have like three or four cold dishes on a menu in India in itself because there
[Guest 1]: is actually a huge association khana hai fresh hai garam hona chahiye as in I still go out
[Guest 1]: with my parents and my parents will always be like soup like most restaurants now don't
[Guest 1]: have soup on the menu unless you're going to a but think about it 20 years ago every
[Guest 1]: restaurant in an Indian restaurant would be a shorba there would be a cream of mushroom
[Guest 1]: cream of tomato or like obviously Chinese restaurants that associate manchow soup is
[Guest 1]: like hot yeah I remember the last time I had soup at a restaurant so think about it like
[Guest 1]: they are no longer soup sections on menus that's the evolution of the palette because
[Guest 1]: clearly there is there obviously a generation that still asks for it but we now can have
[Guest 1]: a whole section dedicated to cold dishes when Bombay canteen opened we had a soup we did
[Guest 1]: and we said we the reason we had that soup on the menu we were like people will ask for
[Guest 2]: soup that was the thinking was it an onion seeds no no it was a drumstick soup drumstick
[Guest 1]: soup it was like it was a great dish but again it didn't last because for many reasons but
[Guest 1]: I think that's been the interesting and I think it's a interesting rabbit hole we've
[Guest 1]: gone down right now where like this is going to constantly keep evolving so the question
[Amit Varma]: is can you be curious enough to keep up yeah and I think I'm reminded of something that
[Amit Varma]: is said about futurists and I often say about creators that they tend to overestimate the
[Amit Varma]: short term and underestimate the long term and would it be fair to say that perhaps with
[Amit Varma]: reference to a few of these things that you were trying you were disappointed that people
[Amit Varma]: didn't catch on and palettes were different but now it's changed so dramatically you know
[Guest 1]: so does that kind of fit just thinking aloud yeah it does it does where I think now certain
[Guest 1]: things this is one dish we always go back to which we thought would be like a runaway
[Guest 1]: hit and we really should be but we keep talking about bringing it back it was basically a
[Guest 1]: prawn head rasam and we had done a spaghetti with a prawn head rasam and to us the umami
[Guest 1]: of the prawn head rasam was similar to that of maggie and therefore noodles made sense
[Guest 1]: because the whole play on nostalgia maggie but form but the form was different the flavor
[Amit Varma]: was different no one connected I totally love to have it I had a prawn rasam in some restaurant
[Amit Varma]: in car a while back which was really good and I thought the combination was fantastic
[Guest 2]: yeah so you keep talking about bringing it back maybe as a protein is a great to use
[Amit Varma]: because the flavors you get from the shells is just amazing yeah yeah yeah and that wheel
[Unknown]: thing like both your faces are turning into wheel right now because it was amazing that
[Amit Varma]: was just so good I feel like like just stopping this interview and just going back there and
[Guest 2]: kind of next podcast recording at opetro let's do a yeah live podcast recording yeah why
[Guest 2]: not yeah gives give give the chef keeps getting food till the podcast recording happens
[Amit Varma]: tell me a long time boss you are aware of this let's talk about the experience of you
[Amit Varma]: know you start bombay canteen and it's incredibly hectic and luckily you've had the bias for
[Amit Varma]: action you've kind of done it you're learning from the doing it and I love the way you described
[Amit Varma]: it Sam where you said it's like you know a monologue becomes a dialogue and then it evolves
[Amit Varma]: into what it is what's like the next step in the journey like what makes you think of
[Amit Varma]: opetro what are you guys feeling about bombay canteen and most importantly what have you
[Amit Varma]: learned about bombay canteen in in the doing of it and how does that shape the journey
[Guest 2]: to come so year one of bombay canteen I'll be honest we weren't thinking much it was
[Guest 2]: just like let's get people in people out um let's get you know table set up reservations
[Guest 2]: done we were trying to get our systems in place like simple things like online reservation
[Guest 2]: systems and all that but obviously year one like look it was a heartwarming response we
[Guest 2]: never said we always stay away from the word success because year one does not dictate
[Guest 2]: success at all it was just heartwarming to see people enjoying food we were getting things
[Guest 2]: wrong there were failures but just the emotions that were getting were amazing and then you
[Guest 2]: had the people walking in being like open in Andheri, open in Juhu, I have a place in
[Guest 2]: Dubai open there and I think Sam was so grounded at that time to say guys no distractions two
[Guest 2]: years this all we do no one gets distracted and this was based on actually reflecting
[Guest 1]: on the period in Delhi where scale we spoke about scale early scaling too fast is what
[Guest 1]: caused us everything to fail and we were like if there is no foundation there will never
[Guest 2]: be any scale so I'll give you the quick fire of how O.Pedro came about so we've finished
[Guest 2]: a year and a half we see this space where O.Pedro is now one of the things that Sam
[Guest 2]: and me really believe in for restaurants is natural light we really believe like even
[Guest 1]: when we work I feel like there needs to be an openness there needs to be a sense of space
[Guest 1]: so while Bombay canteen never had the natural light coming in it that's that mill that mill
[Guest 1]: compound itself allowed us to light it up in a beautiful way so we saw the space beautiful
[Guest 2]: natural light it's me chef Thomas chef Floyd standing there are these chaffa chaffa is
[Guest 2]: what frangipani trees outside so we're standing there looking in we've loved the space and
[Guest 2]: Floyd says let's do Mexican and all of us say yes now four of us have never really agreed
[Guest 2]: to anything so far especially when it comes to food that night chef Floyd is traveling
[Guest 2]: back to New York Samir is going on a trip to Portugal for like a leisure trip and we
[Guest 2]: say okay agree let's start doing some research now when we had done Bombay canteen actually
[Guest 2]: we had done a lot of groundwork before like you know like we used to literally stand in
[Guest 2]: kamla mill and follow people where is he eating lunch where is he going like you know we used
[Guest 2]: to just stand and like do a lot of that research now with BKC we knew as a market it existed
[Guest 2]: there were restaurants around so we didn't need to prove the market we were wanted to
[Guest 2]: say okay let's go out and get data to see what cuisines in India are doing well you
[Guest 2]: know like just and honestly there's no data available for this and at that point like
[Guest 2]: I remember Thomas and me I think were in the restaurant and we just start okay Mexican
[Guest 2]: we all love but what could the issues be and this was thinking six years ago right one
[Guest 2]: is avocado at that point one avocado was selling at some 200 rupees right which just like kills
[Guest 2]: it two is the idea of Mexican food then were cheesy nachos creamy corn something and just
[Guest 2]: the idea that we will have to go through this education phase and we said like you know
[Guest 2]: what made Bombay canteen get that heartwarming was that it was always relatable food was
[Guest 2]: Mexican relatable to us so we left it at that and I started thinking and I sent Sam and
[Guest 2]: Floyd an email that we all love Mexican food and obviously there's a huge presentation
[Guest 2]: to this to say that Mexico as a country I have not been to Sam's window and Floyd has
[Guest 2]: actually done a Mexican joint before as a country you feel a sense of delight you know
[Guest 2]: it's so colorful people are so warm they have their own culture the Americans went there
[Guest 2]: for spring break they'll go for a honeymoon they'll go for a wedding you come they would
[Guest 2]: come back with then the cuisine transcended like even if like I remember being in in Sydney
[Guest 2]: and with an industry friend and he said let's go for Mexican tonight I knew it's gonna be
[Guest 1]: a fun night you know it's gonna be margaritas you're gonna be drunk it already gives you
[Guest 2]: an image of what the night is going to be like right and in the sense of BKC that made
[Guest 2]: sense because for us architecture and design plays a huge part in a workplace for me BKC
[Guest 2]: is like man-made steel towers first day you go to these fancy offices you love your office
[Guest 2]: you're taking photos taking photo of the view seventh day you're sleeping on your keyboard
[Guest 2]: right but for that person who sleeps on his keyboard how does he really relate to Mexico
[Guest 2]: right so but Mexico was the happy place for Americans so the question was what is our
[Guest 2]: happy place and that's how Goa came about like if I am sitting in an office in a bank
[Guest 2]: in in BKC if I close my eyes and start what is the place I dream about and it's Goa it
[Guest 2]: just brings a smile on our face right we've like for me I studied there Chef Floyd grew
[Guest 2]: there like Sam's had various vacations like anytime even our team goes there they come
[Guest 2]: back with a smile on their face like and Goa has also changed for the worst but still you
[Guest 2]: come back with a smile on your face and that's what we went about creating like O Pedro would
[Guest 2]: be our happy place and that's how we like every brand description out of that came out
[Guest 2]: of those two words let's create a happy place for the community around us and Goa then like
[Guest 2]: they didn't take me to Portugal they went for 20 days very sad very sad to do a lot
[Guest 1]: of research you still get shit for it five years later yeah someone oh yeah actually
[Guest 2]: good someone and someone had to build the actual restaurant so yeah so I genuinely enjoyed
[Guest 2]: like I am very involved when the restaurant gets built on the site and we built I feel
[Guest 2]: a really happy place for people like it and I think that was really like when I think
[Guest 1]: about it I think your original question was where are we going and how are we thinking
[Guest 1]: about it it truly triggered the next stage like if step stage one to us was Mumbai Canteen
[Guest 1]: O Pedro opening O Pedro triggered stage two because I think for us we started seeing like
[Guest 1]: building another three four thousand square foot space was like then we really started
[Guest 1]: asking ourselves the question like is this where we see our lives going from one to two
[Guest 1]: to ten and it was just a question at that point like and there's a reason for that question
[Guest 1]: was again our minds kind of works in terms of behavior as well as like what are you seeing
[Guest 1]: on the ground India is actually a culmination of like 26 different countries like taste
[Guest 1]: change like there's no homogeneity like when you going back to the question of scale where
[Guest 1]: everyone says scale scale scale like India doesn't have the ecosystem to scale because
[Guest 1]: like you need to go change your menu in every city Delhi versus Bangalore versus Bombay
[Amit Varma]: in itself our three biggest markets potentially are our 15th largest state by population if
[Guest 1]: it was a country would be number 42 in the world yeah so it's massive it's massive and
[Guest 1]: the use of the same spices changes every hundred kilometers or so they say right and more than
[Guest 1]: that like there is no availability of affordable real estate to continuously keep building
[Guest 1]: with enough demand around them and so I think as we were looking at that is when and I'll
[Guest 1]: throw it back to Yash on this because it was again insight by him that triggered our next
[Guest 2]: stage which led to Bombay sweet shop so he Sam brought up the question saying we need
[Guest 2]: to get into people's homes right and obviously we were doing Swiggy Zomato and at that stage
[Guest 2]: a restaurant company's way of getting into someone's home was a offshoot of something
[Guest 2]: you made at the restaurant so hot sauce or a Makhani sauce or XYZ and we'd never really
[Guest 2]: saw that as a transition and believe me we tried also we tried to put the Kejriwal sauce
[Amit Varma]: into a bottle and we were just not happy with where it was going so many people aren't happy
[Guest 2]: with where Kejriwal is going so we that was looming and the quick fire thing was we as
[Guest 2]: the best part of being you asked us what keeps passion going in this industry I think is
[Guest 2]: is the people in this industry so if Sam and me today even right now decide to go to Singapore
[Guest 2]: and we message any person in the industry that person even if they've worked a 12-hour
[Guest 2]: shift will take their time out to show us the city in from their eyes and like take
[Guest 2]: us to their bar or their place and that list you get of places to go like basically find
[Guest 2]: the into outlet of that city is what makes this industry special and same when so when
[Guest 2]: we had moved to India we used to get a lot of these guys in and we always wanted to give
[Guest 2]: them something we were super proud of to take back right so normally what you do you give
[Guest 2]: masalas same now if you can't cook a masala here in India how is that guy in London figuring
[Guest 2]: it out masala chai they brew tea we cook tea so they are like this doesn't taste how so
[Guest 2]: that started and it I was flying for chef Floyd's restaurant opening and he had booked
[Guest 2]: me on Turkish Airlines and I was passing through the Turkish airport and I've never been to
[Guest 2]: Turkey and there's a guy at the airport a Turkish guy like fully dressed up and he's
[Guest 2]: selling me Turkish delights and baklava was like his life dependent on it just taste it
[Guest 2]: like you know he's just like tasted this was water and like his heart was in it and I went
[Guest 2]: and I was at the Forbes conference where Maria Sharapova is talking about her candy brand
[Guest 2]: she has a candy brand called Sugarpua now when you know a celebrity starts any brand
[Guest 2]: you just think perfume but she started because she grew up in Chernobyl and with poverty
[Guest 2]: like how much a snicker bar like a meant to her she described that and she's like at some
[Guest 2]: point in my life I wanted that gave me happiness I want to start a candy brand right so flying
[Guest 2]: back like I remember like sending Sam a note like we've always said celebrate India celebrate
[Guest 2]: India why are we not doing something with Indian sweets like I remember first time my
[Guest 2]: presentation had a cheeky dressed like a candy bar right it's like how do you make Indian
[Guest 2]: sweets of today like how do you make them fun how do you make it relatable and that's
[Guest 2]: the journey that led us into Bombay sweet shop where we knew yes people had stopped
[Guest 2]: eating Indian sweets due to various reasons but we knew that our expertise at that point
[Guest 2]: from two spaces was one creating an offline experience and we had understood the form
[Guest 2]: flavor analogy by then so we're like there is something here we've never made Indian
[Guest 2]: sweets neither at chef light so chef Girish had worked in New York studied there had come
[Guest 2]: in India was working with the olive group when it's one of the best pastry chefs in
[Guest 2]: India and an offshoot meeting with him we just asked him what's your dream and he's
[Guest 1]: like I want to create the new Ayangar bakery and then he's grown up in Manipal and like
[Guest 1]: he and he'd had this he'd gone to culinary school there and six and eventually went to
[Guest 1]: the Culinary Institute of America and but in between he happened to work at a mithai
[Guest 1]: shop for six months and he just had that one experience and it had triggered this thought
[Guest 1]: in him that what if you applied like French technique to Indian sweets and Floyd would
[Guest 1]: always say that unless you don't take time to understand tradition you can't sort of
[Guest 1]: evolve it and I think so there's so many you can go into a different rabbit hole talking
[Guest 1]: about authenticity and what it means I don't think there is anything such as authenticity
[Guest 1]: only because it needs to be relevant to that time and place and it someone's tradition
[Guest 1]: becomes someone else's sort of inspiration at some point and everything evolved out of
[Guest 1]: something else exactly and so Girish joined us in 2018 for two years we spent he did most
[Guest 1]: of like work we joined him as we were running the other stuff when we could but at different
[Guest 1]: points like he basically spent two years understanding how to make traditional sweets from halwais
[Guest 1]: across the country and that is the basis of like so even the bak was inspired by Sohan
[Guest 1]: halwa which he ate in Delhi and so Sohan halwa has this butterscotchy flavor and he went
[Guest 1]: originally was trying to make an inside out chikki as he called it which eventually turned
[Guest 1]: into the baks and it was the process of iteration through that that we were able to sort of
[Guest 1]: again look at this to us Indian the Indian sweet market represented the same white the
[Guest 1]: canvas which Indian food represented where nothing had been done to contemporize it at
[Guest 1]: that point but do it in a way that it stays true to where it came from so which is why
[Guest 1]: like Yash was saying our strength always lay in creating these sort of offline experiences
[Guest 1]: so our first step was that we took an old factory in Baikala and we said let's create
[Guest 1]: Willy Wonka's mithai factory here so that when you walk in you feel that like there
[Guest 1]: is like something happening like one of the other exercises we do is like when we are
[Guest 1]: getting into a new concept we make a list of everything related to that concept it could
[Guest 1]: be hundred things we made listed everything about a mithai shop that we could think of
[Guest 1]: and then we slowly struck away everything we didn't like and that's how you reach where
[Guest 1]: you want to what you want to keep of tradition where you want to take it so what were the
[Guest 1]: kind of things you liked and didn't like one of the biggest things is all you interact
[Guest 1]: with is a glass shelf you don't see anything beyond that you never see it being made you
[Guest 1]: know so if when you walk into Bombay sweet shop in Baikala like everything is being made
[Guest 1]: in front of you from the hot kitchen to the finishing to the way it's being packed to
[Guest 1]: all of it and all of it was bought out into the open because we felt like making a motichoor
[Guest 1]: ladoo is as beautiful as a croissant being sort of layered and cut and yeah it's just not spoken
[Guest 1]: about unfortunately because it's not cool it's not sexy to do that and that really led
[Guest 1]: us into an as life would have it we opened in the first week of March of 2020 and then
[Guest 1]: the life happened and it kind of like took us into a whole different realm we lost Floyd
[Guest 1]: at that point obviously and it took us a while to recover but I think more than anything
[Guest 1]: else like Bombay sweet shop has also turned into a silver lining because it forced our
[Guest 1]: hand into being in the online world in a very different way to what Yash was referring to
[Guest 1]: earlier like tech was like a POS system for us at that point like nothing more and he
[Guest 2]: is really sort of caught caught it by the collar yeah so like I you know again I hungering
[Guest 2]: is really small you know we speak really aspirationally on what we've created because we love it but
[Guest 2]: for me Bombay sweet shop is the best space we've created because with Shonan who's designed
[Guest 2]: it there was like restaurants always there so you had a layout with this we didn't have
[Guest 2]: a layout right and yes now we say you know we need more space but we didn't know that
[Guest 2]: like and it's when people walk in they are just they're like wow because someone's told
[Guest 2]: them go to by color there's an amazing mithai shop and they are not expecting what they
[Guest 2]: see like it's it's like for me it brings a smile to my face now so like to his point
[Guest 2]: like we wanted to make Willy Wonka's mithai factory and the idea was you come in and see
[Guest 2]: how everything's made when we lost Floyd and I don't think we'll ever recover emotionally
[Guest 2]: out of it like for him for us it was he's he'll always be a father figure right but
[Guest 2]: one thing is to always tell us was storytelling and that was the idea the space was to be
[Guest 2]: the storytelling but this democratization of tech also led to democratization of content
[Guest 2]: now that space is become our content hub like everything we produce we show it on our reels
[Guest 2]: it's being done in this beautiful space we don't need to like dramatize it at all it
[Guest 2]: just gets people so excited about Indian sweets again and we've done small things with regards
[Guest 2]: to tech where we track every piece of ingredient to when that mithai got made and the idea
[Guest 2]: is the good thing for us is you order and then we make so you get fresh stuff right
[Guest 2]: all data is here like unlike restaurants when four people come to dine we have the info
[Guest 2]: of only one person who makes the reservation whereas because we are now in the online world
[Guest 2]: we know what people are liking what they're not liking I as a founder have a crew of hundred
[Guest 2]: people who get first tasting options so we make whatever gets they get sent like an FBI
[Guest 2]: packet there's a type form with a survey form they give us their feedback chef Girish gets
[Guest 2]: a chance to talk to them okay you found it salty why this why that it's a more collaborative
[Guest 2]: process with our those hundred people like you were talking about to take it to the next
[Guest 2]: thousand people right one of my dreams is like I as a kid in Pune used to think Cadbury
[Guest 2]: is Indian I just I just assumed it yeah right I would love to make an Indian sweet chocolate
[Guest 2]: bar that we all just eat at home so we launched Indy which is our chocolate bar which has
[Guest 2]: patisa in it and it looks for me really beautiful and we've just launched it but now we want
[Guest 2]: to launch like a flat bar so we had launched a mango flavored one and people liked it so
[Guest 2]: what we are doing is we've got six flavor combinations that we've tried and we've liked
[Guest 2]: so we threw my Instagram basically put it out there that the same form flavor thing
[Guest 2]: is that's where my joy is and I want to share it with all of you hundred people need to
[Guest 2]: sign up but you're going to pay for this you're going to pay for one bar a month one chocolate
[Guest 2]: bar which will have Indian mithai in it to be delivered to you you have to give us feedback
[Guest 2]: right at the end of the six bars we'll do a zoom call with all of you it's not mandatory
[Guest 2]: where chef Girish is going to ask you all why what so that it's more collaborative for
[Guest 2]: your benefit and ours we will get please see who's Pritha who's super inspirational to
[Guest 2]: do a fun workshop with you on how to design a chocolate wrapper like imagine we would
[Guest 2]: have never done this two years ago like like being able to share our things with with the
[Guest 2]: guests through zoom we have a hundred slots filled up yeah and then like a fun thing where
[Guest 2]: we get to design that banner with them now Cadbury can't do that and I hope they're not
[Amit Varma]: listening so we are doing that the big companies will never do that you'll only be disrupted
[Guest 2]: from below yeah so we are doing that we've just sent out the first chocolate bars everyone's
[Guest 2]: given us feedback already and it's we tell them also the packaging coming to them is
[Guest 2]: a normal brown box right now and it's such a fun journey to be on because like I am also
[Guest 2]: being honest to them to say you are some of it is going to come melted to you because
[Guest 2]: we've not worked on the R&D yet we need to get that firm flavor right and let's see what
[Guest 1]: ends up at the end of six months the funny part what we find ourselves talking about
[Guest 1]: now is like you have to do inherently unscalable things to figure out where you're going if
[Guest 1]: you only do things for scale you have you will never get the love right for it you will
[Guest 1]: never get the product right you will never get the thought right because you were always
[Guest 1]: building to distribute it to a thousand different places if you hear any of the stories of the
[Guest 1]: brands we love they all started somewhere but over a period of time those stories have
[Guest 1]: been forgotten and that's and I think that's an important reminder to us as I think what
[Guest 1]: Yash was just referencing to is like we are realizing the importance of community and
[Guest 1]: building anything and I think that really brings us to where we want to go next in hopefully
[Guest 1]: what would be the third stage of hopefully a long journey is where Enthoo Cutlet becomes
[Guest 1]: an important peg in it right like where at one level we've got the restaurants we've
[Guest 1]: now got Bombay Sweetshop which is an online business but also now we need to tell stories
[Guest 1]: in a way that it makes people fall in love with food in India that's it that's the only
[Guest 1]: thing that we want to do we don't want to like this is not like a branded community
[Guest 1]: which is here to like sell you things because the reality is people today are see through
[Guest 1]: that stuff in two seconds as in you've been running a content based business for a while
[Guest 1]: if you were going to peg brands left right and center listeners would see through it
[Amit Varma]: I think the moment you're cynical people become cynical of you right so you have to yeah and
[Guest 1]: I think this is going to be a whole different journey which we've been fortunate enough
[Guest 1]: to have an amazing team sort of come on board in the last year on all fronts and it's been
[Guest 1]: a truly a process of rebuilding in the last year or year and a half and we're finally
[Guest 1]: super excited about where it's going I think it took us a while to get there emotionally
[Guest 1]: but like actually super excited about all the things falling in place currently and
[Guest 1]: I'm sure there'll be more more and more issues that'll drop like hot potatoes on us but so
[Guest 1]: be it that is life so yeah long story to a short question no I think that's a beautiful
[Amit Varma]: insight about how the moment you try to scale you lose your soul so it's it's just you know
[Amit Varma]: scale of thinking of scaling can be dangerous and and what I love about the sort of work
[Amit Varma]: you guys do or anybody who kind of moves away from the beaten path is that what you do is
[Amit Varma]: not just valuable for the doing of it but also that it gives others the permission to
[Amit Varma]: think beyond the boundaries you are in a sense shifting the window of possibility for them
[Amit Varma]: you know by expanding the palettes of certain people you you know you also give someone
[Amit Varma]: else a chance to come and take that a little bit further and that leads me to this thought
[Amit Varma]: I did a recent episode on a cinema perhaps the most joyous episode I've recorded with
[Amit Varma]: Jai Arjun Singh and Subrat Mohanty and one of the points Subrat made about the Hindi
[Amit Varma]: film music of the 50s and 60s and early 70s is that in his view it was a golden era and
[Amit Varma]: it was a golden era that happened because of a confluence a lucky confluence of talented
[Amit Varma]: people who thought the same way about their work so you had the music directors that is
[Amit Varma]: you had the composers you had the lyricists you know the whole shebang everything kind
[Amit Varma]: of just came together and then it kind of went away and I asked him why it went away
[Amit Varma]: and it's partly I guess circumstances or whatever because I was a little baffled by it if it
[Amit Varma]: worked so well if it was so successful it would have given rise to more people like
[Amit Varma]: them and all of that but then that didn't really happen a bunch of really talented people
[Amit Varma]: lived they worked together for a while it was a beautiful melding of talents and then
[Amit Varma]: it was gone and when I think of for example what you've described of your journey so far
[Amit Varma]: the key element in it really seems to be people you know having people who share the same
[Amit Varma]: ethic who share the same whatever and Floyd really seems to be a driving force in this
[Amit Varma]: so can you talk a bit about him you know and what is left after that as well in all of
[Guest 1]: you I think there's so many sort of in my mind when I think of Floyd now is you're left
[Guest 1]: with so many memories and so many sort of roles that he played he started off as the
[Guest 1]: guy who interviewed me so this sort of larger than life figure I would say who interviewed
[Guest 1]: me to being my boss to being the guy who would call me every time his iPad wouldn't work
[Guest 1]: to who then becoming a mentor and guiding us through this journey of opening our first
[Guest 1]: restaurant to then becoming a father figure in our lives at large about just we lived
[Guest 1]: a decade together and I think we lived and I'm really glad that we got to spend that
[Guest 1]: time together so I think at various stages he's played different roles in the most beautiful
[Guest 1]: possible manner and I think that really sort of roots us today I think a lot of what we
[Guest 1]: are trying to do is in our work is sort of take forward the things he stood for in his
[Guest 1]: legacy so to speak so for instance we now run what we call the Floyd Cardo scholarship
[Guest 1]: with Manipal University where we try to get one student with from an underprivileged background
[Guest 1]: to go through their beautiful culinary arts program I think it's one of the best programs
[Guest 1]: right now in the country and I think we're starting in small ways to sort of bring his
[Guest 1]: legacy forward we hopefully have some other exciting projects that come on board in the
[Guest 1]: next few months which again sort of celebrate him and I think that the change for me has
[Guest 1]: been like to go from mourning him in a way to celebrating him in every way because I
[Guest 1]: think he was equally mischievous like he would play pranks all the time to being this obviously
[Guest 1]: very serious thinker about where food in India and Indian food and technique and how do you
[Guest 1]: teach and mentor like there's a whole spectrum that needs to be celebrated and I think that's
[Guest 1]: the beauty of it and we hope we're able to do justice to it as the years go by I think
[Guest 1]: for us Floyd will always be a very very strong sort of influence in our lives yeah as in
[Guest 2]: we have so many stories I feel like and we always make it a point also to our we call
[Guest 2]: it a founders meet on whichever employees join if it may be the restaurant in the first
[Guest 2]: 30 days they have to sit with us and we walk them through what we call our values and we
[Guest 2]: talk about our values by saying these are not poster values we don't have beautiful
[Guest 2]: corridors where there's a poster with someone standing with their hands you know like namaste
[Guest 2]: saying respect below it you know like how you go to a bank and but when you go to the
[Guest 2]: bank tell her the zero respect that's given to you we we talk about it through what employees
[Guest 2]: have done in the last eight years to show that right and all of that has come about
[Guest 2]: through Floyd like he had every right to act like a celebrity but he never did he was super
[Guest 2]: humble like when this was our first trip to New York after he left us and we still meet
[Guest 2]: restauranters will tell us about how Floyd came to the restaurant and even after did
[Guest 2]: his dinner maybe spend like an hour and a half telling them about his where what was
[Guest 2]: some of his failures and how they could learn from it the fact that he was an open book
[Guest 2]: to like teach always very calm me and Sam have fought only once when he made you cry
[Unknown]: no that's a whole different story that's a very drunk story but yeah we were fighting
[Guest 2]: in the first week of Bombay canteen over something he had seen in New York work as a process
[Guest 2]: and I was fighting him to say the team is too new we can't handle this right now we
[Guest 2]: were going at each other in front of the team and he took us aside and just gave us a lesson
[Guest 2]: that day and I think we still remember it and we fought for different things but we've
[Guest 2]: never really raised our voice after that because we still remember what he said said to us
[Guest 1]: so I think those things will continue I think he basically made a point that you guys can
[Guest 1]: disagree but like I think again goes down to signaling right like the perception of
[Guest 1]: the team thinking that you guys are not on the same page should never happen in front
[Guest 1]: of them yeah and and obviously argue but argue with respect yeah and as a fact that you have
[Guest 2]: been talking to the team about not raising voices or teaching it with respect but that's
[Guest 2]: not what you all are signaling right now it's a very simple thing but sometimes like in
[Guest 2]: the heat of the moment of especially operations it gets to you but his wife Barkha is carrying
[Guest 2]: forward his legacy with what she we've called Floyd Cardo's legacy as well she recently
[Guest 2]: spoke at there's a I would say the best hospitality conference in in you in New York it's called
[Guest 2]: welcome conference hosted by Will Gudara and she spoke at it and the courage she showed
[Guest 2]: because it wasn't easy what she went through so she's with someone we always in touch with
[Guest 2]: and she's carrying forward his legacy as well and at the end of the day we just want him
[Guest 2]: to be proud I know chef Hussain says it every day to his team as well that whatever we do
[Guest 2]: we should always make sure that he's proud of what we do what I often think about is
[Amit Varma]: how what we do and the people we do it with shapes who we are right it changes you fundamentally
[Amit Varma]: I would imagine that someone who joins you as a young server and imbibes your values
[Amit Varma]: would actually be a different person than had she joined you know some standard restaurant
[Amit Varma]: which you know serve chicken tikka how have you changed as people because one thing that
[Amit Varma]: I imagine an experience of running a restaurant where you're fighting fires all the time would
[Amit Varma]: be in terms of teaching your humility and another way of actually managing people I
[Amit Varma]: think when you manage people if you learn to do it well you again have to learn humbleness
[Amit Varma]: learn how to respect everyone and all of that how has this whole experience changed you
[Amit Varma]: as people like I would imagine Sam that had you still been a banker you would have been
[Amit Varma]: a different person not passing a value judgment good bad this whatever but just a different
[Amit Varma]: person so what can you look back on your personal growth through this period and think about
[Guest 2]: how you would have been different as people or how you have been shaped I first disclaimer
[Guest 2]: is hunger inc has bad days of even culture you can't be at a hundred percent like I just
[Guest 2]: want to say to all startup founders out there like we are not 100% every day we have employees
[Guest 2]: we have servers who come in just didn't get the right treatment for various reasons but
[Guest 2]: I tell my leaders and tell the team today was a bad day tomorrow you need to walk in
[Guest 2]: knowing that we'll give a hundred percent tomorrow and in India culture gets gets very
[Guest 2]: mistaken with morale right people think culture changes overnight it doesn't the morale changes
[Guest 2]: overnight and the last two years were hard rollercoaster and then some yeah so as a person
[Guest 2]: I feel year one when Floyd like for me hospitality first the thing that he imbibed because he
[Guest 2]: worked with Danny Myers for so long he brought it into the thing was very new for me because
[Guest 2]: I had worked with hotel restaurants all my life and I used to always say me and he always
[Guest 2]: used to say you have to say we we are in this together so the first year like I drank the
[Guest 2]: Kool-Aid fully and we are like in there in the trenches doing this doing it the right
[Guest 2]: way but I used to get really angry when an employee used to leave us and we should be
[Guest 2]: like we are doing this like you know I have been where they were 10 years ago serving
[Guest 2]: a table and I know we are giving them the best treatment we are paying them well why
[Guest 2]: are people leaving us or even now my difference being is you need to keep giving the right
[Guest 2]: culture and be less cynical about the the result of it right you keep investing in that
[Guest 2]: culture but you will still have employees who are not going to be happy with what they
[Guest 2]: see and feel at work and they are going to leave and at that moment you are like why
[Guest 2]: am I still investing in this culture mentally physically financially but give up that and
[Guest 2]: go back to keep doing it because people keep leaving one thing like I have learned is in
[Guest 2]: if someone works with us for two years I'm really grateful like it's we've got we've
[Guest 2]: obviously COVID destroyed our great retention numbers like it completely changed it but
[Guest 2]: now I'm like if anyone gives me two years I'm fine but I tell them please take a step
[Guest 2]: up in your next place go to a better organization see what will what leader you will work under
[Guest 2]: there don't look at just the organization because it's happened to me like when I gave
[Guest 2]: my first campus interview the HR director of the hotel was the nicest genuine person
[Guest 2]: but the leader I was reporting to was not a nice person at all so there was a couple
[Guest 2]: of things like for me I feel like I used to be very hot-headed I've become less hot-headed
[Guest 1]: now I've been able to like mom calls him the angry young man for a reason angry not so
[Amit Varma]: young but I've been able to channel my emotions much better you can't even remember what she
[Amit Varma]: cooked for you yeah I mean yeah she shouldn't be angry I feel it was jelly custard like
[Unknown]: it was yeah so yeah I think I don't know if that answers the question but I've become
[Guest 1]: less cynical about that part of it not saying I'm zero but for me I think it's been a it
[Guest 1]: used to hurt a lot when people used to criticize or like like again I feel in India you're
[Guest 1]: not really taught how to give feedback or receive feedback in a very healthy manner
[Guest 1]: and you realize that very quickly that going through especially running restaurants in
[Guest 1]: India someone has an opinion every day like if you decide to start like taking everything
[Guest 1]: to heart you're done for you'll be in a sort of emotional wasteland for a long time I remember
[Guest 1]: the debates we had when we got our first negative review and like it would because you've put
[Guest 1]: your heart and soul into it like it mattered and not to say that it doesn't matter like
[Guest 1]: I think we now tell ourselves about how look for the trend within what people are saying
[Guest 1]: versus what people are saying I think we react to it less emotionally and react to it more
[Guest 1]: from a data point of view versus like just taking it like who the fuck are you to talk
[Guest 1]: about this right and I think for me like I think it's also been a personal journey to
[Guest 1]: figure that out also because like I'm someone who like I realized this about myself like
[Guest 1]: I like people to like me right like and you can't please everyone and you just have to
[Guest 1]: be comfortable in your shoes that not everyone's gonna like you and so be it like move on you
[Guest 1]: need to be doing what you need to do and they need to be doing what they need to do and
[Guest 2]: I didn't know that about you that you like to be liked there you go now you know now
[Amit Varma]: you do things two things two things and I know you yeah and he had to give you two things
[Guest 2]: you don't know right yeah I think we should do this as a weekly podcast I feel like yeah
[Amit Varma]: what was covid like did it change like covid obviously hit the restaurant business very
[Amit Varma]: very very hard right how did you manage to kind of stay afloat and did it sort of I won't
[Amit Varma]: say expand your horizons that's unfair but in what new ways did you have to think did
[Amit Varma]: you find yourself thinking because of covid like yeah she already spoke about understanding
[Amit Varma]: the technology and you know getting a little deeper into that figuring that part of it
[Amit Varma]: out but just in general thinking about you know what you want to do with your lives what
[Amit Varma]: makes you happy and earlier a lot of that would have had the physical component of running
[Amit Varma]: a successful restaurant and here for almost a couple of years that game is kind of you
[Amit Varma]: know shut down for the moment so so what are you going through how how do how do things
[Guest 1]: change I think again like losing Floyd played such a emphatic role in the way covid hit
[Guest 1]: us I think I think so many people lost so many near India ones and I think we went through
[Guest 1]: the same way so I think the first I would say the first lockdown was just spent operating
[Guest 1]: out of fear like it was you'd already gone through the worst of losing someone who was
[Guest 1]: so close to you and then you potentially had everything on the line you've built you had
[Guest 1]: no clarity in terms of whether what will come about we went through one of the most stringent
[Guest 1]: lockdowns that ever were and we were going through the motions we opened for delivery
[Guest 1]: we put some things in a box we did the best we could at that point in terms of like delivering
[Guest 1]: it tried to add our sort of thoughts to it and I think there was a point for me personally
[Guest 1]: where I think a few months in like it just came to me like we need to stop operating
[Guest 1]: out of fear and we kind of spoke about this so and we were having this conversation quite
[Guest 1]: actively when the second delta wave hit us and I remember we came together eight nine
[Guest 1]: people of us who were the leadership team like we got together in my home I still remember
[Guest 1]: and we said guys this time let's play it by our own on our own terms what we love to do
[Guest 1]: is to create that's what gives us we spoke about this earlier also like it's the creative
[Guest 1]: instinct that like brings the joy and we were like we need to make some money to survive
[Guest 1]: so every restaurant every place that we have will operate two brands the original one and
[Guest 1]: something new and that led to like a series of ideas being thrown out we ended up with
[Guest 1]: multiple delivery ideas from kingfu canteen which was indian chinese to sandwich shack
[Guest 1]: which was comfort sandwiches to pita shack which was a mediterranean place to brunnen
[Guest 1]: babka which was an online sort of bake house and i'm missing any thai there was same same
[Amit Varma]: but different which was a thai like within like four months we created five different
[Guest 1]: concepts do a keto shack also next time we actually had like keto versions of like lettuce
[Guest 1]: wrapped and and but that you know i don't think it may it gave us survival money for
[Guest 1]: sure but like more more than that to what yash was referring to it boosted morale at
[Guest 1]: that point in a way that i don't think any like us having a conversation with the team
[Guest 1]: is not going to do it like you're everyone's in the same boat at that point and there were
[Guest 1]: some very hard decisions which i hope no entrepreneur ever has to make and we'd never go back to
[Guest 1]: that time you had to let people go and then that and more right like i think there were
[Guest 1]: tough decisions along every step of the way and i think that really was the tipping point
[Guest 1]: for us where coming out of the second wave is when we were also and we were very fortunate
[Guest 1]: i will say this our family supported us our investors supported us all our partners our
[Guest 1]: landlord supported us like we wouldn't be here if but for this there is no way by no
[Guest 1]: stretch of imagination am i saying like there was some stroke of genius that led us here
[Guest 2]: it took the village again so like yeah in my point quickly like i still remember the
[Guest 2]: first we didn't get time to so floyd passed away restaurants we actually shut our restaurants
[Guest 2]: before the lockdown came in because samir was sick like normal sick and my girlfriend
[Guest 2]: nico was in singapore doing this bombay canteen pop-up with chef thomas end of feb maybe and
[Guest 2]: we used to live in singapore so we had a lot of friends and she called me on the second
[Guest 2]: day of the pop-up saying this thing is hit here and singapore's this was the end of february
[Guest 2]: yeah singapore's really coming down straight and they've asked us to leave the country
[Guest 2]: and i think we should think about what is going to happen in india and you know at this
[Guest 2]: point in india we are like nothing can like stop us right come now we've opened bombay
[Guest 2]: sweet shop come middle of march friends who run places in london have already have spoken
[Guest 2]: to and they are like it's bad you need to start figuring out what's going on and that
[Guest 2]: sense of like not feeling safe enough started coming in for me personally and i decided
[Guest 2]: that we're gonna shut all three places and just imagine like you're standing doing this
[Guest 2]: town hall telling your teams that they had never heard of this so we also showed a presentation
[Guest 2]: on what i had got someone from london to send us like wash your hands do xyz y'all are gonna
[Guest 2]: get paid just go home don't worry go home and i remember telling them we'll be back
[Guest 2]: like that was the best information you had at that point like we made that decision a
[Guest 2]: very gut decision and helped because they all went home home they didn't get stuck in
[Amit Varma]: the city they weren't stuck in bombay yeah so because i think three or five days later
[Guest 2]: the city got shut luckily all team members who weren't from bombay had left then obviously
[Guest 2]: the end of the month chef lloyd passed away and that sent us down a very emotional thing
[Guest 2]: but i remember april we were like we have to get out of this it used to be me samir
[Guest 2]: chef thomas chef hussein chef kirish vedha who's now running bss and couple of like i
[Guest 2]: know who our team members also were and we were 11 of us delivery operations only opedro
[Guest 2]: we go in vedha is running the boss looking after for swiggy's amount of making people
[Guest 2]: line up samir and me have made a amazon kind of warehouse in the we've removed all the
[Guest 2]: tables with rutikesh i remember one of the front of us guys we've literally made an amazon
[Guest 2]: warehouse in the front small menu hussein thomas a little bit of kitchen girish who's
[Guest 2]: the head chef of i i owe them so much of bombay sweet shop he's the dishwasher guy with another
[Guest 2]: with burhan from dishwash both handling that and that's it that's all we started on and
[Guest 2]: just like it felt unsafe honestly coming into work because also you were driving on roads
[Guest 2]: like empty you had that stupid pass on your car but every day just went past i i was lucky
[Guest 2]: to go home to nico and an amazing dog i think that my that close circle of this team and
[Guest 2]: nico and tux like just made me realize that we we have everything we need right now and
[Guest 2]: we just kept doing that just kept the first lockdown we just like just keep it simple
[Guest 2]: keep it like chef heena used to make cakes at a house shannon used to go with a car pick
[Guest 2]: up the cakes bring it to the restaurant we used to sell the cakes by delivery so we we
[Guest 2]: were like we have to survive there's no choice guys we are going to make this survive and
[Guest 2]: that's what we did i feel like that hustle that our team has is what sets us apart and
[Guest 2]: the support we got from everyone around us like even our regular guests who i don't think
[Guest 2]: should be ordering with from us three times a week but they were they knew they had to
[Guest 2]: contribute and it's all to thanks to landlords like landlords were really nice to us if you
[Amit Varma]: delivered to andheri and i knew about your wheel i'd order it three times a day so does
[Guest 2]: tux get better food than other dogs yes but not from the restaurants make it at home he
[Guest 2]: does get he actually eats better food than i do if i tell you his diet tell me his diet
[Guest 2]: so right now he's on beef like ground beef that is sauteed he's on french beans he's
[Guest 2]: on torai he's on red snapper what's the right to rice is uh cucumber it's like a cucumber
[Guest 1]: and zucchini that's a good diet for a keto friendly diet yeah yeah no carbs that dog
[Amit Varma]: has more like privilege than anyone else yeah if you ever need a second dog yeah i can dress
[Amit Varma]: up and bark and you know just saying bark reminded me of the best desert in the world
[Amit Varma]: basically so and to cutlet you know so tell me a bit more about that you know when you
[Amit Varma]: when you came home for lunch a couple of months back you told me a bit about it i think you
[Guest 2]: should challenge him to tell you in one sentence which is not more than six this is the scene
[Amit Varma]: in the unseen we don't do one sentence there you go love it yeah no no take an hour as
[Guest 1]: long as you want but tell me everything no i think as i was explaining to you earlier
[Guest 1]: like it i think it's been a culmination of the things we've done which has led us to
[Guest 1]: this point and this realization of the importance of something that is n2 cutlet now hopefully
[Guest 1]: we are able to sort of see the light of day on it very soon but the idea really behind
[Guest 1]: it was like just the way the restaurants were also while they were rooted in a concept they
[Guest 1]: were also the kind of restaurants we wanted to go to this is a symblematic of like the
[Guest 1]: kind of stories i want to read yash wants to read the team wants to read and be a combination
[Guest 1]: of like it should be fun it should be unusual it should be things that are offbeat things
[Guest 1]: which you don't just find with a google search that's the hope and dream and we are constantly
[Guest 1]: striving towards that but there is like we were talking earlier there is no sort of playbook
[Guest 1]: to this yet only when we start doing it is when we are going to start figuring it out
[Guest 1]: in fact we spent a couple of hours this morning debating vociferously like what is the sort
[Guest 1]: of format of it how will we distribute it how will we do all of those and i think all
[Guest 1]: of us bring very diverse points of view and i can see yash already sort of itching to
[Guest 2]: as in for me n2 cutlet will hopefully be like the gully boy of indian food and india stories
[Guest 2]: the reason i say gully boy is because kaliba is that one hindi movie that all of us around
[Guest 2]: this table watched and enjoyed and so did my parents like you know my parents love the
[Guest 2]: old and also love these new ones which are like brahmastra types but like i really respected
[Guest 2]: gully boy for the way they showed what they did right so for me like n2 cutlet should
[Guest 2]: be something that's going to be like opinionated informative but like unusual food stories
[Guest 2]: and we we need to start small like so we'll we feel like we can give you like a netflix
[Guest 2]: style binge where we'll just drop like i don't know eight six to eight stories at a time
[Guest 2]: that will come out bi-monthly for you but is this text is it a mix of stuff yes it's
[Guest 1]: a quick it's uh it's text and visuals to start with and the whole idea is that it's rooted
[Guest 1]: in a season and the season to begin with is say curiosity and curiosity around food and
[Guest 1]: like we've spoken to people who uh who beautifully contributed around their curiosities around
[Guest 1]: food and the and we're playing around with other ideas where every every two months the
[Guest 1]: season changes and as the season changes hopefully the conversation changes so that yes it's
[Guest 1]: still talking about like what i was what we've been talking i think through this show is
[Guest 1]: like where our food has come from but also hopefully where it can go and i think to yasha's
[Guest 1]: points like it should be opinionated it should be argumentative but it should also be a fresh
[Guest 1]: take on stuff it hopefully should be fun and that will be sort of the like the culmination
[Guest 1]: of i think a lot of things we anyway do at the restaurant but taking it into different
[Guest 1]: spaces than we are used to and but do it in a way that like it makes someone think yeah
[Guest 1]: to your point like again we are not thinking about scale like this is not like a hundred
[Guest 1]: thousand subscribers like if i can get a thousand people to read it great yeah and we'll take
[Guest 1]: it from there like there is no like grand like unified theory around this like hopefully
[Guest 1]: it builds in steps as we are doing it more ideas will come more people will join the
[Guest 2]: community that we're trying to build and then it goes from there like in in my world when
[Guest 2]: we had written a long time back and we didn't we didn't have an enthoo cutlet even this
[Guest 2]: idea of what this thing is we had started writing a document which we used to call hungering
[Guest 2]: digital and i think those were some of the good things that we picked up during lockdown
[Guest 2]: was putting our thoughts down on a piece of paper and then making it like a runway for
[Guest 2]: six months let's just do that right so we put down this document for hungering digital
[Guest 2]: where everyone in india right now is talking about community and i just don't like other
[Guest 2]: than watching community the show and laughing i just don't know how to define it so i used
[Guest 2]: i had said this and i typed it out to say the best thing about bombay canteen is when
[Guest 2]: you come to bombay canteen as a family or as a friend you're all sitting around the
[Guest 2]: table and there's food on the table but what is more engaging is the environment that we've
[Guest 2]: created within those four walls for all of you to exchange stories right like dinner
[Guest 2]: or lunch is yes it's about the food but that atmosphere where you've tasted something and
[Guest 2]: you start telling a story then he starts telling a story so we felt that we've created that
[Guest 2]: environment within the four walls of of bombay canteen and we're really proud of that but
[Guest 2]: how do you do that when you remove the four walls and like taking it to an online medium
[Guest 2]: and that's what the hope into cutlet becomes is where all of us share unusual food stories
[Guest 2]: but they are research like like the food at bombay canteen there is a opinion that the
[Guest 2]: chef has there's research from a region that's gone into it and that's what we want to do
[Guest 2]: but it won't have anything to do with our restaurants with what we do it's just something
[Guest 2]: that i feel sam has been wanting to do for the longest time and like if through this
[Guest 2]: podcast you would realize he himself is like an n2 cutlet about food because he's like
[Guest 2]: born in it i feel it's for those n2 cutlets to come there and like n2 cutlets unite mature
[Amit Varma]: n2 cutlet is what it kind of seems like yeah you've you know been seasoned by life as it
[Guest 1]: were you know that's a bit as in as a 40 year old they've definitely been seasoned quite
[Amit Varma]: a bit yeah i'll link it to n2 cutlet from the show notes you know i'll just tell my
[Amit Varma]: listeners we are recording this near the end of september and but the episode will release
[Amit Varma]: when n2 cutlet releases basically we'll kind of time it for the same time because i'm really
[Guest 1]: looking forward to it and to seeing you know what the best part about i feel is like again
[Guest 1]: conversations such as ours which i don't think would have happened in the absence of us doing
[Guest 1]: this right and i think that's the beauty of it like and are you from the world of food
[Guest 1]: no but like there are strong memories you have there are strong opinions you have and
[Guest 1]: they i think food is a device to have conversations about many things that are happening around
[Guest 1]: us whether it's politics whether it is culture whether it is lifestyle at large like that
[Guest 1]: is the beauty of food like it is the center of the world in a way and so many people associate
[Guest 1]: with it i think one of the most exciting things for me is like the conversations we are having
[Guest 1]: as a team with people right now and seeing the possibilities right now we are imagining
[Guest 1]: the possibilities and hopefully in the next few months we actually see those possibilities
[Amit Varma]: come to life yeah and what kind of struck me even when you sort of reached out in the
[Amit Varma]: cold and said let's meet i want to you know share an idea with you what struck me there
[Amit Varma]: was the openness and the humility to you know instead of kind of sitting back and saying
[Amit Varma]: that hey we've nailed it we've made these cult restaurants we've got this great sweet
[Amit Varma]: company happening to actually talk to people and try and figure shit out and just have
[Amit Varma]: that sort of hunger to do something new is something i love some final questions really
[Amit Varma]: two final questions for each of you for both of you which is that what advice would you
[Amit Varma]: have to give to young entrepreneurs from your experience because you've kind of you've seen
[Amit Varma]: the ups you've seen the downs you've you've been disruptors you've tried to do something
[Amit Varma]: no one has done before you know what advice would you have i think i already said it don't
[Guest 1]: try and do it alone and don't try to scale and then i don't think don't try to scale
[Guest 1]: i think scale where it fits the context makes sense scale for the sake of scale is wrong
[Guest 1]: like i think we've understood that the restaurants in itself are difficult to scale because the
[Guest 1]: kind of restaurants we built but bombay sweet shop deserves the scale yeah because of again
[Guest 1]: it is of what it has been think about it like mithai was always meant to be enjoyed at home
[Guest 1]: so if i can distribute it and think of ways to make it interesting and fun to be enjoyed
[Guest 1]: at home why not we have to give it its due so i think that would definitely i think understanding
[Guest 1]: the context in which you're talking about scale is important yeah and i've you know
[Amit Varma]: i keep raving about the box but i've tried a bunch of your products i think our good
[Amit Varma]: friend roshan abbas was joining us for drinks in a little while he'd you know gifted me
[Amit Varma]: a hamper of your stuff and they're all brilliant and i hope they kind of become ubiquitous till
[Guest 2]: people forget ke box pehle kahan hua tha i feel any entrepreneur i would say people invest
[Guest 2]: in people and enjoy the grind because it never stops might as well accept it yeah wise words
[Amit Varma]: so final question almost a predictable one if you heard my show which is you know i'd
[Amit Varma]: like you to recommend to me and my listeners books that mean a lot to you but could also
[Amit Varma]: be films could also be music and even the books need not be about food but they can
[Amit Varma]: be but you know whatever means the most to you through your life and which you'd love
[Guest 1]: to share with others so i think we've spoken about setting the table obviously because
[Guest 1]: of just the nature in which it changed our thought process when it comes to the world
[Guest 1]: we inhabit and i think it's applicable to many many sort of other areas for me the other
[Guest 1]: book which i love is one called creativity inc by ed catmull who was one of the founders
[Guest 1]: of pixar and i think what struck me i think i read it one or two years after bombay canteen
[Guest 1]: opened and it like like the parallels between the world of film theater and food is just
[Guest 1]: it it's obvious once you get into it but like really the thought there was like how do you
[Guest 1]: scale creative thought and that's what i took away from it like how do you build an organization
[Guest 1]: which supports new thought coming in how do you not lose your soul if you think of pixar
[Guest 1]: like there's so much love created over such a long period of time which is unheard of
[Guest 1]: and it's because like it was built for that in a way and like getting a peek into that
[Guest 2]: thinking was amazing for me for me and the book you'll remember the name the book by
[Guest 2]: the founder of zappos delivering happiness delivering happiness is just every founder
[Guest 2]: needs to because it talks a lot about just customer service and i feel you might be starting
[Guest 2]: a sas company or you're starting the next oeo or you're starting it has to be the basis
[Guest 2]: of everything you do then the second one i feel specifically for indian entrepreneurs
[Guest 2]: is because i feel we've never been trained to be extroverted and present our ideas we
[Guest 2]: have a dream in our head and we we make the worst power points in the world i feel the
[Guest 2]: most cluttered there's a book called how to talk like ted it's basically ex ted speakers
[Guest 2]: who've put in very simple things it's a really nice book with examples and you can go to
[Guest 2]: youtube links and see it it's helped me personally a lot like whenever i present an idea to sam
[Guest 2]: also i put it on a simple white presentation and present it because it some things in your
[Guest 2]: brain you need to be able to put it out in a better way and is there a great idea from
[Guest 2]: you that sam hasn't responded well to i wanted to start a ladoo concept called ladoo ray
[Amit Varma]: it's gonna happen now yeah and i've seen an instagram idea of yours that i was a prank
[Guest 2]: which was coffee box called cox yes namita wasn't namita wasn't too happy with that yeah
[Guest 1]: my mother that was a prank on her yeah yeah she's still rolling her eyes at me no but
[Guest 1]: to be fair like to talk about clarity or ideas like i think at that time both of us along
[Guest 1]: with another colleague of ours we did your writing course and i think it was just a great
[Guest 1]: way to sort of again like are we both going to ever write anything or meaningful meaningful
[Guest 1]: probably not but i think the the principles behind it which was super important right
[Guest 1]: like the clarity of thought thinking of who's reading the thinking around like those i think
[Guest 1]: it's that principles of the thinking which was really amazing and like which is what
[Guest 1]: is like driving a lot of what we are doing right now like what is behavior who are we
[Guest 1]: talking to like maybe it's through a restaurant maybe through it's through the written medium
[Guest 1]: of enducutlet maybe it's through the neck like it's funny like i'm thinking as i'm thinking
[Guest 1]: i'm remembering like we used to have a chikki which used to be called the everything chikki
[Guest 2]: because we so basically when you go to a mithai shop the sweet and the savory farsan kachori
[Guest 2]: and stuff chakli wafer so we took all that with jaggery and made it into a a chikki because
[Unknown]: i think i've had it yeah yeah yeah so we used to call it everything chikki because it's
[Guest 2]: everything in the in the store yeah and we like i love it because it's like like chakpatan
[Guest 2]: is in it and it never really took off so we like through a competition sent it out to
[Guest 2]: people and said you name it for us and everyone came out with bombay bhel chikki which is
[Guest 2]: actually such a nice simple answer we should have thought of it before but people told
[Guest 2]: so for diwali like we are today sitting in september yeah we've sold out of it it's the
[Amit Varma]: first product to already get sold out for diwali and we are like a good month away not
[Unknown]: surprised you haven't sold out of barks no like that should be perennially sold out what
[Unknown]: is wrong with people they're not eating them fast enough there should be a resale market
[Amit Varma]: for the damn thing like black market of there you go yeah so yash and sameer thanks so much
[Guest 1]: for coming on this show this was such a fun conversation thank you thank you so much for
[Amit Varma]: having us
[Amit Varma]: if you enjoyed listening to this episode check out the show notes enter rabbit holes at will
[Amit Varma]: samir and yash's social media handles are there you can follow samir on twitter at canteen
[Amit Varma]: sam though he doesn't seem to be too active and you can follow yash on both twitter and
[Amit Varma]: instagram at yash we can what a great handle i don't have such a great handle you can follow
[Amit Varma]: me on twitter at amit varma a m i t v a r m a you can browse past episodes of the scene
[Amit Varma]: in the unseen at seen unseen.in thank you for listening
[Amit Varma]: did you enjoy this episode of the scene in the unseen if so would you like to support
[Amit Varma]: the production of the show you can go over to seen unseen.in slash support and contribute
[Amit Varma]: any amount you like to keep this podcast alive and kicking thank you